






Frequently asked questions - CBeebies - BBC







                                                     





















































       Homepage     Accessibility links   Skip to content   Accessibility Help      BBC Account      CBeebies     CBeebies iPlayer     Grown-ups     TV Guide     CBBC     Bitesize       MenuMore     Search BBC        Search BBC              CBeebies     CBeebies iPlayer     Grown-ups     TV Guide     CBBC     Bitesize        Close menu    




























Home


Menu























Home



Shows



Games



Puzzles & Quizzes



Watch & Sing



Join In



Make & Colour



Radio



Topics





Start your search here...






















Start your search here...



















Frequently asked questions



































Love
Loved
Unlove





293









Frequently asked questions
Got a question about anything on CBeebies? From how to watch the panto to sending in a birthday card, you'll find the answers here.














Love
Loved
Unlove





293













Below are the answers to some popular queries about CBeebies. If the answer to your question isn't included here, and you would like to send in a comment, complaint or appreciation to the BBC, you can do so via the Contact the BBC page.
BBC ACCOUNT
BEING IN AN AUDIENCE
BIRTHDAYS ON CBEEBIES
CBEEBIES APPS
CBEEBIES CHANNEL NUMBER CHANGES 
CBEEBIES LAND
CBEEBIES LIVE
CBEEBIES MAGAZINES
CBEEBIES MERCHANDISE, TOYS AND DVDS
CBEEBIES ON BBC iPLAYER
CBEEBIES ON YOUTUBE
CBEEBIES RADIO
CBEEBIES SHOWS ON TELEVISION
CBEEBIES SKILL FOR SMART SPEAKERS
CBEEBIES UNITY ACTIVITIES ONLINE
CBEEBIES WEBSITE
CBEEBIES WEBSITE: COMPUTER-ONLY GAMES REMOVED
CBEEBIES WEBSITE ON MOBILE OR TABLET DEVICES
CHARITY EVENTS AND FUNDRAISING
CONTACTING A PERFORMER 
INFORMATION ABOUT CBEEBIES AND THE BBC
INFORMATION ABOUT INDIVIDUAL PROGRAMMES
RED BUTTON SERVICE
SENDING THINGS IN TO CBEEBIES
TAKING PART IN A CBEEBIES SHOW




CREATING AND USING YOUR BBC ACCOUNT

Children of any age can set up a BBC account, and we recommend children under 13 get help from a parent or guardian. Soon users will have to sign in using a BBC account to watch BBC iPlayer or listen to BBC iPlayer Radio, on some devices. 




BIRTHDAYS

How do I send in a birthday card to be read out on the CBeebies channel?
All the information about how to send in a birthday card can be found on the birthdays page.
Why are CBeebies Birthdays no longer on iPlayer?
Uploading the many CBeebies Birthdays across a week to the BBC iPlayer is a much more complex process than for full programmes and we found that they were watched by significantly fewer people.
As such, we decided that the time and resource spent on this complex process could be better served directly on making new programmes and games for you.
We know how much you enjoy seeing your childrens’ birthday cards on CBeebies, so we provide details of the times you can see the birthday cards each week on our birthdays page.
I missed seeing my child's birthday card being read out, can you send me a recording?
Unfortunately, it's not possible for us to provide any recordings.




BEING IN AN AUDIENCE

Can I apply for tickets for this year's CBeebies Christmas Show?
The CBeebies panto in 2023 is Robin Hood. You can watch CBeebies Panto: Robin Hood 2023 on BBC iPlayer and the CBeebies channel on 9th December at 9.25am. 
How do we get tickets for the CBeebies Prom?
We cannot guarantee that there will be a CBeebies Prom every year but there are often other family-friendly events as part of BBC Proms. You can follow the BBC Proms on social media or check the Royal Albert Hall website to find out more. 
Can my child be in the audience for Swashbuckle?
Unfortunately, it's not possible for us to consider individual requests for children to appear on the programme, or be in the studio audience.
Children taking part in Swashbuckle and appearing in the studio audience are usually found through casting sessions run by the production team in a wide range of schools and nurseries.
Like all such sessions, these take account of a variety of factors, for example, age range and type of contribution required.
We are not currently looking for children to take part in filming, and regret that we can't consider requests for individual children, or specific schools/nurseries to appear on future episodes.




TAKING PART IN A CBEEBIES SHOW

Can my child take part in one of the television or radio programmes?
Unfortunately not. Children taking part in CBeebies programmes are usually found through casting sessions run by the production teams to find children to take part in a particular show.
Casting sessions usually take place in nurseries or schools, and take account of many factors: different shows require different types of contribution, which might include specific age ranges or children with links to the subject talked about in a particular programme.
We receive many requests for children to take part in programmes like Swashbuckle or I Can Cook. We are not looking for children to take part in filming and we regret that we are unable to consider requests for individual children or specific schools/nurseries to appear on future episodes.
Should any open opportunities to be considered for a programme arise, they will be detailed on our How to take part in a CBeebies show page.
Can my child take part in Swashbuckle?
Unfortunately, it's not possible for us to consider individual requests for children to appear on the programme, or be in the studio audience.
Children taking part in Swashbuckle and appearing in the studio audience are usually found through casting sessions run by the production team in a wide range of schools and nurseries.
Like all such sessions, these take account of a variety of factors, for example, age range and type of contribution required.
For Swashbuckle, it's particularly important that we find four children for each programme who are friends and who work well together, so by finding children through their schools with the help of their teachers, we can better manage expectations about appearing on the show.
We are not currently looking for children to take part in filming, and regret that we can't consider requests for individual children, or specific schools/nurseries to appear on future episodes.




SENDING THINGS IN TO CBEEBIES

How to send in to CBeebies
Send in your material to CBeebies and have a chance of it being shown on TV or online.
You can find lots of opportunities to send in your pictures, video clips and audio recordings in the Join In section of the CBeebies website.
Please read the Top Tips below to stand a better chance of your family's work being included. 
Please keep in mind that we won’t be able to notify you individually if your family’s work is going to be featured on television, radio or online – so please remember to watch the programme, check the website or listen to the CBeebies Radio podcasts to see if you can spot your contribution.
Due to the sheer volume of submissions, it will not be possible for all submissions to be shown on the programme or to be included in the online galleries.
Top Tips
To have the best chance of seeing your submission on TV or online, or hearing your audio file on CBeebies Radio, we advise the following:

Provide the first name only and age of the child.
For child protection reasons, do not post on our social media pages to say that you have uploaded it. Our social media team will delete any posts referencing this. 
Make sure that any video clips are filmed in landscape (wide) as opposed to portrait (tall) as this is better for TV.
If any of your video clips or pictures include characters please make sure that you only use CBeebies characters as other commercial images cannot be used for copyright reasons. This includes any other characters and brands on children’s clothing.
Please make sure that there are no identifiable logos on the child's clothes. For example, no school logos should be visible.
Provide an explanation about what it is that you are sending in. It’s always nice to have a bit of a background story!





CHARITY EVENTS AND FUNDRAISING

Can CBeebies make a donation to our charity fundraiser?
The BBC is a publicly funded organisation which means that we cannot support one specific business or organisation over another. The BBC is unable to fund individual charities or concerns and cannot use licence fee payer money to fund other organisations.




CONTACTING A PERFORMER

Can I get a presenter to come along to an event?
Unfortunately it’s not possible for CBeebies presenters or characters to attend charity events or fun days.
Can I get a signed photograph of a presenter or character?
We regret that we can’t provide photographs of any of our presenters or performers.
How do I get in touch with…
Please understand that we can’t give you contact details for presenters or members of our production teams. 




CBEEBIES MERCHANDISE, TOYS AND DVDS

Is there a toy/book/CD/DVD available from my child’s favourite programme and where do I buy it?
We cannot help with BBC merchandise queries, as that falls under a 'commercial activity' and we're not allowed to be commercial. Internet search, relevant retailers or other parents may be able to tell you what (if anything) is available.
Is Fun With Phonics available to buy on DVD?
Fun with Phonics is available on DVD for schools and DVD and Book packs are available on the domestic market. You could use a search engine and look for “fun with phonics”. 




CBEEBIES MAGAZINES

How do I contact a CBeebies magazine?
We can’t help with enquiries about CBeebies magazines, as they’re produced by a commercial publisher. Please contact CBeebies magazines directly if you have a query. Your magazine should feature a contact email address within the publication details.




CBEEBIES LIVE

I have a question about CBeebies Live…
We cannot help with queries about CBeebies Live arena shows because they are produced by BBC Worldwide (the commercial division of the BBC), and we aren't allowed to be involved with any commercial activity. If you have a question about CBeebies Live please contact BBC Worldwide directly through the CBeebies Live website.




CBEEBIES LAND

How can I find out about CBeebies Land?
Unfortunately, CBeebies can’t answer queries about CBeebies Land, because it's a paid for attraction managed by Alton Towers Resort in partnership with BBC Worldwide, the BBC's commercial division.
Any queries about CBeebies Land should be sent to Alton Towers Resort or BBC Worldwide, who will happily deal with your query. Please contact Alton Towers Resort directly via their online form.




CBEEBIES SHOWS ON TELEVISION

How do I find out when a programme will be broadcast on CBeebies?
The schedule for programmes currently being shown on CBeebies can be found on the CBeebies TV Guide. We regret that we cannot answer individual queries about when a show will be on CBeebies, or about when a series will return to the channel.
Why isn’t my child’s favourite programme on anymore?
The CBeebies schedule is updated every now and then so that everybody gets a chance to see their favourite programmes and to keep the schedule varied and fresh. We try to offer a balanced schedule that everyone enjoys, as we know viewers have their own favourite programmes and regular viewing.
We're sorry if such changes disrupt your routine - we always try to ensure that programmes and slots are clearly signposted via trails and our presenters.
We rotate some older series because we have to balance bringing different titles into the schedule at different times of the year within a fixed amount of airtime.
As a result, some shows will not be on TV for a while because they have made way for other programmes in the schedule.
Everyone has their favourite shows and children at different stages of development prefer different shows, so we try to balance our offering by providing a schedule that suits the majority audience and by rotating shows carefully. Occasionally, programmes are removed from the CBeebies schedule because licences have not been renewed.
We regret that we cannot answer individual queries about when a show is going to return to CBeebies.
Why are CBeebies shows repeated throughout the day?
The CBeebies schedule is always made up of a mixture of new programmes and older, familiar shows. Our schedule is built on the premise that most little ones are watching a small amount of television each day, and so we repeat blocks of programmes through the day to accommodate children with different routines watching at different times - therefore, if you were to watch CBeebies all day, you would certainly see some programmes and links more than once.
Likewise, we’re aware that our audience are only with us for a limited number of years - as they get older children move on to new stages of development and become interested in different programmes.
We have also found that younger children are discovering some of our older programmes for the first time, so we try to provide a balance between much-loved staples and new programmes.




CBEEBIES CHANNEL NUMBER CHANGES



On Wednesday 2nd August 2017, the Freeview TV guide was updated to create more space for new services. As a result of this update, some channels, including CBeebies & CBeebies HD and CBBC & CBBC HD have moved to new numbers.
If you use Freeview or YouView, please be aware that the channel numbers are now as follows:

CBeebies has moved from channel 121 to channel 202


CBeebies HD has moved from channel 124 to channel 205


CBBC has moved from channel 120 to channel 201


CBBC HD has moved from channel 123 to channel 204

These changes only affect people using Freeview or YouView. Your channel numbers haven't changed if you use other providers such as Sky, Virgin Media or Freesat. 
What do I need to do if I am a Freeview or YouView user?
To update your guide, you will just need to retune your Freeview TV or digital box (some equipment may load the changes automatically). If you're not sure how to do this you can find advice at Freeview.co.uk and from the Freeview advice line on 03456 505050. 
You can retune at any point after mid-afternoon on Wednesday 2nd August 2017.
What happens if I don't retune?
You'll carry on seeing the channels at their old numbers - but it is recommended that you retune regularly to make sure your TV guide is up to date and that you have access to all available channels in your area.
Will I have to update my favourites and recordings?
Depending on your equipment, you may need to update your favourites list following a retune because some channels will be on new numbers. Some digital recorders might require scheduled recordings to be reset after a retune, but existing stored recordings shouldn't be affected.




CBEEBIES ON BBC iPLAYER

Can I watch CBeebies on BBC iPlayer?
BBC iPlayer allows you to watch most programmes for up to 30 days after they have been broadcast. If you want to, you can also download a programme to store for 30 days on your device. For more information, please see BBC iPlayer Help.
You need a TV licence to watch or download programmes from BBC iPlayer, and you can find more information on BBC iPlayer Help. You will also need to sign in using a BBC account or create one for you or your child. 
Getting a BBC account is quick, free and easy you can register here. For more information about signing in and BBC accounts take a look here. 
And don’t forget, if you want to control what your child watches on BBC iPlayer you can do this by using our parental guidance lock feature. Find out more about setting up a parental guidance lock here. 



Have things changed in terms of accessing CBeebies or CBBC iPlayer on the web?

You can access programmes from CBeebies and CBBC on the main BBC iPlayer (website, app, and on connected TVs). Find out more about the Child Experience on BBC iPlayer.



How can I access BBC iPlayer for my child?

BBC iPlayer is changing and in some places you or your child will need a BBC account to watch TV shows.
If you register your child for an Under 13 BBC account they will get a homepage on the main BBC iPlayer and personal recommendations tailored for children. We also recommend setting up a Parental Guidance lock to ensure they only access content you deem to be appropriate.
Signing in is really easy:

If you or your child has a BBC account already - you just need to use that.
If you don't have a BBC account - you'll need to create a new one.




How to register for a BBC account

If you would like to register for your own BBC account you can do this in a few simple steps. All you need to do is enter your email address, create a password and tell us your postcode. 
If you would like to register for an account for your child or help them create their own, it's really easy too and here's a step-by-step guide to help.
Step 1: Enter your child’s date of birth
If, for example, they were born on 27th September 2014, you would type in 27/09/2014












Step 2: Enter a username and password for your child
You’ll need this each time you sign them into their BBC account, so make sure it’s something you’ll remember.
You’ll also need to create a password, which needs to include eight or more characters, at least one letter and at least one number or symbol. Make sure it’s memorable - and don't write it down anywhere.












Step 3: Enter your child’s hometown
Type in the hometown or city of where your child lives. Type in a few letters and you'll be offered suggestions in the drop-down menu.
Step 4: Enter your child’s gender
Click on the drop-down menu and select one of the options. You can choose female, male or enter another term of your choosing. And there’s also an option if you’d prefer not to say.
Step 5: Press Register 
Step 6: Child Permissions and Parental Guidance locks.
If you want to control what your child can and can’t do on the BBC you can also set up child permissions for them. All you need to do, is make sure you have an account too, then you can link your accounts. Find out more about setting up child permissions here.
And remember, to control what your child watches on BBC iPlayer you will still need to use the parental guidance lock feature. Find out how to set up a parental guidance lock here.
That's it! You're ready to sign in, so your little one can watch, discover and download the best of CBeebies on the BBC iPlayer app.
FAQs

How do I sign in to use BBC iPlayer? To sign in you need to register for an account, getting a BBC account is quick, free and easy. If you need any further help, find more information here.


Why are you asking me for my hometown? As a public service, the BBC needs to make something for everyone. Giving your full Hometown helps us understand how the BBC is used in specific areas across the UK. This means we can check to see if we are making something for everyone and giving best value for the license fee.


Why are you asking me for my gender? We ask everyone what gender they identify as. You can choose female, male or enter another term of your choosing, there’s also an option if you’d prefer not to say.

Need more help? Head to the main BBC Help with accounts page. 




CBEEBIES’ APPS

Playtime Island app
Go Explore app
CBeebies Little Learners app
Get Creative app
Storytime app
Why is Playtime app being retired?
App technical help 




Playtime Island

The CBeebies Playtime Island app is available to download via the Apple, Google Play and Amazon app stores. 
How has Playtime Island changed?
We’ve changed the design of the island to make it even easier for children to find and play their favourite CBeebies games. Putting the CBeebies shows your child loves at the forefront of the app!
We have also added some great new features, such as the ‘My games’ treasure chest which lets you see all your child’s favourite games in one place. Once played and downloaded, these games can then be played offline, for those times when you need them to hand quickly!
A new settings feature allows you to reduce the amount of space Playtime Island takes up on your device by removing games that haven’t been played in a while.
Plus, we are continually adding new games to the app, and this update means that we can really celebrate new arrivals to the island and let you know they have arrived!
Why has Playtime Island changed?
Playtime Island is over four years old and we wanted to redesign the app based on your feedback and make it even easier for children to find and play their favourite CBeebies games.
This new version of the app has also been made so that we can update it easily, this means we can continue to make it fresh, exciting and even better in the future for you and your child!
How can I find all the games?
To find your child’s favourite game, just tap on that CBeebies show character. Then you or your child will be able to see all the games associated with that show.
E.g. If you want to play Hop to It, tap on Peter Rabbit and you’ll see it on the next screen.
We have also introduced two new game collections to the island called ‘Big kids’ and ‘Little ones’. Here you will find even more games from CBeebies favourites for your child to play with.
To help you find all the games your child has played before, head over to the ‘My Games’ treasure chest where all their favourite games can be stored.
How do I download games to play offline?
Every time you play a game, it gets added to the Playtime Island treasure chest. When you're offline go here to see all the games you can play without an internet connection.
Why have some games been removed?
Some of our older games no longer work well in Playtime Island, but don't worry, you can still find these on the CBeebies website.
Which games have been removed?
Pablo's Art World Adventure and Andy's Safari Sounds have been removed from the Playtime Island app but you can still play them on the CBeebies website.
What do I need to do to get the new app?
From early June, the new app will be available to everyone through the Apple, Google Play and Amazon app stores.
Why am I unable to update to the new version of the Playtime Island app?
If your device operates on Android 6 or below or iOS 13 or below, unfortunately we cannot continue to support these old versions. We will now only be supporting iOS 14 and above and Android 7 and above.
As device operating systems update over time, it becomes increasingly difficult to keep our apps working as well as we'd like. This means that you will not see this new update.
You can continue to use the original Playtime Island app for now, but you’ll see no further updates.
Will the Playtime island app have more games in the future?
Yes! There will be more games added in the near future. Keep updated on the Playtime Island app page. 




Will the new app take up more space on my phone?/How do I remove downloaded games?
The file size of the app itself is quite small. This file size will however increase with every game that’s downloaded.
If you think Playtime Island is taking up too much space on your device, you can go to the Manage Downloads section in Settings. Here you can see when a game was last played, and remove those that haven't been played in a while.




Go Explore

Download the Go Explore app now via the Apple, Google Play and Amazon app stores.
What is Go Explore?
Go Explore is packed with games that help your little one learn and discover with their CBeebies friends. Each game draws on the Early Years curriculum taught in primary schools to help children build up their skills and understanding ready to start school.
What is happening to the CBeebies Go Explore app?
We are relaunching the CBeebies Go Explore app as CBeebies Little Learners, a new app rooted in learning and developed in collaboration with BBC Bitesize.
The all-new CBeebies Little Learners is a free learning app, and is totally safe for children, with no in-app purchases from a brand you can trust. It’s got all of your child’s favourite CBeebies characters and it’s mapped to the Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) so as they play, your child will be learning the skills they need to develop before they start Reception - including mathematics; literacy; communication and language; personal, social, and emotional development; and understanding the world.
As well as a new name and new look the CBeebies Little Learners app will also work with new technology, so it will work better, be easier to use and we will be able to make improvements to keep things fresh and exciting. Plus we’ve made it even easier for parents, carers, guardians and educators to find a learning activity for their pre-school child to help them prepare for school.
How has CBeebies Go Explore changed?
The CBeebies Go Explore app has a new look and new name, but don’t worry, it’s still packed with all your child’s favourite CBeebies learning games from CBeebies Go Explore. The new and improved CBeebies Little Learners app is easy to navigate, and will feel familiar to the other CBeebies apps, so children will be able to find their favourite games and videos more easily than before. Meanwhile, parents and carers can find a specific learning activity for their child more easily too! By tapping on your favourite CBeebies character or learning area you are taken to the games and videos available, then you simply choose something to do and enjoy!
The Go Explore cinema area has now been replaced with more short videos in the CBeebies Little Learners app. Just like the games, the videos are categorised by EYFS learning area and there is also a topical collection on the main carousel, where your child can watch videos and learn about the world around them.
We have added a brand-new BBC Bitesize area to the CBeebies Little Learners app, with a starting school game called ‘My First Day At School’, which is designed to help and support children as they prepare to start Reception.
CBeebies Little Learners has an exciting new way to find, play and save your favourite games, in the new 'My Games’ area, which replaces the Den from the Go Explore app. The ‘My Games’ area also makes it easy to add and delete games to reduce the amount of space the app takes on your device.
For more information on the new app, take a look at the CBeebies Little Learners FAQ section below. 
Will accessing the app on the go use up my data allowance?
Go Explore must have an internet connection the first time it's launched. You might prefer to do this while you are connected to WiFi in order to save your data allowance. After this, all games can be played offline. Please note that videos are streamed and need an internet connection to play.
Why am I unable to update to the new app?
The minimum operating system levels that we support are Android 7 and above and iOS 14 and above. If your device is on Android 6 or below, or iOS 13 or below, or you have a Kindle Fire HD 8 (2017), Kindle 2015 device or devices older than Kindle 15, unfortunately you will not see this new update for CBeebies Go Explore. As device operating systems update over time, it becomes increasingly difficult to keep our apps working as well as we'd like. You can continue to use the original CBeebies Go Explore app for now but you will see no further updates and we cannot guarantee that it will continue to function as expected if you were to update your device’s software.
Which devices/software are compatible with the app?
Minimum Operating System levels are: Android 7 (Android 6 and below is no longer supported) iOS 14 and above (iOS 13 and below are no longer supported). Unfortunately, we can no longer support Kindle Fire HD 8 (2017), Kindle 2015 and devices older than Kindle 15 anymore.
How has the Your Mindful Garden game changed?
Go Explore’s ‘Your Mindful Garden’ has been reimagined with CBeebies Love Monster with new, calming activities. Love Monster is a popular pre-school character who is always learning more about the world around him. We believe by adding this character, we can help further encourage children to learn more about mindfulness and form healthier habits. We understand change can be difficult for children and hope that children will continue to enjoy practising mindful activities with Love Monster.
How is Love Monster: Monster Mindfulness game different to Your Mindful Garden?
Just like Your Mindful Garden, Love Monster: Monster Mindfulness supports children’s wellbeing by encouraging mindful activities, all with the added bonus of Love Monster! The game has been updated so children can now join Love Monster with 6 brand new activities to help your little one feel clear minded and calm. Try some stretches and breathe along with Love Monster, try focusing and find Love Monsters friends and more!




CBeebies Little Learners

Download the CBeebies Little Learners app now via the Apple, Google Play and Amazon app stores.
What is happening to the CBeebies Go Explore app?
We are relaunching the CBeebies Go Explore app as CBeebies Little Learners, a new app rooted in learning and developed in collaboration with BBC Bitesize.
The all-new CBeebies Little Learners is a free learning app, and is totally safe for children, with no in-app purchases from a brand you can trust. It’s got all of your child’s favourite CBeebies characters and it’s mapped to the Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) so as they play, your child will be learning the skills they need to develop before they start Reception - including mathematics; literacy; communication and language; personal, social, and emotional development; and understanding the world.
As well as a new name and new look the CBeebies Little Learners app will also work with new technology, so it will work better, be easier to use and we will be able to make improvements to keep things fresh and exciting. Plus we’ve made it even easier for parents, carers, guardians and educators to find a learning activity for their pre-school child to help them prepare for school.
What makes CBeebies Little Learners special?
It is a free learning app from CBeebies and BBC Bitesize. It is totally safe for children, with no in-app purchases from a brand you can trust. It’s got all of your child’s favourite CBeebies characters and it’s mapped to the Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) so as they play, your child will be learning the skills they need to develop before they start Reception.
The EYFS and Early Years learning areas featured in the app are:

Mathematics - Numbers and Shapes collection
Literacy - Sounds and Letters collection
Communication and Language - Speaking and Listening collection
Personal, Social and Emotional Development - Wellbeing and Independence collection
Understanding the World - Our World collection and Colours collection

What is the CBeebies Little Learners app?
The new CBeebies Little Learners app is designed to put the fun into learning! The app still sits alongside the other CBeebies apps, to include CBeebies Playtime Island, Storytime and Get Creative, but it has been re-imagined in collaboration with BBC Bitesize’s education consultants. The app is still packed with all your child’s favourite CBeebies characters and games, but now it's even easier to find a learning game for them.
The games are grouped by Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) learning area, so you will know exactly what they are learning, and you can be sure your child is having fun with CBeebies and learning at the same time. Meanwhile, like our other CBeebies apps, the CBeebies Little Learners app will now also let you download and save your child’s favourite learning games, which can be easily found in the ‘My Games’ collection and can be played at any time, wherever you are, even when you are offline.
As well as the existing learning games, the CBeebies Little Learners app is adding more videos to sit alongside the learning games and provide another way for children to learn about the world around them and topical calendar events - such as Christmas and the Chinese and Lunar New Year.
The CBeebies Little Learners app also has a brand-new BBC Bitesize area, so when your child is ready, they can play the 'My First Day at School' game and get a fantastic introduction to what it’s like in Reception at school.
How has CBeebies Go Explore changed?
The CBeebies Go Explore app has a new look and new name, but don’t worry, it’s still packed with all your child’s favourite CBeebies learning games from CBeebies Go Explore. The new and improved CBeebies Little Learners app is easy to navigate, and will feel familiar to the other CBeebies apps, so children will be able to find their favourite games and videos more easily than before. Meanwhile, parents and carers can find a specific learning activity for their child more easily too! By tapping on your favourite CBeebies character or learning area you are taken to the games and videos available, then you simply choose something to do and enjoy!
The Go Explore cinema area has now been replaced with more short videos in the CBeebies Little Learners app. Just like the games, the videos are categorised by EYFS learning area and there is also a topical collection on the main carousel, where your child can watch videos and learn about the world around them.
We have added a brand-new BBC Bitesize area to the CBeebies Little Learners app, with a starting school game called ‘My First Day At School’, which is designed to help and support children as they prepare to start Reception.
CBeebies Little Learners has an exciting new way to find, play and save your favourite games, in the new 'My Games’ area, which replaces the Den from the Go Explore app. The ‘My Games’ area also makes it easy to add and delete games to reduce the amount of space the app takes on your device.
Why am I unable to update to the new app?
The minimum operating system levels that we support are Android 7 and above and iOS 14 and above. If your device is on Android 6 or below, or iOS 13 or below, or you have a Kindle Fire HD 8 (2017), Kindle 2015 device or devices older than Kindle 15, unfortunately you will not see this new update for CBeebies Go Explore. As device operating systems update over time, it becomes increasingly difficult to keep our apps working as well as we'd like. You can continue to use the original CBeebies Go Explore app for now but you will see no further updates and we cannot guarantee that it will continue to function as expected if you were to update your device’s software.
Which devices/software are compatible with the app?
Minimum Operating System levels are: Android 7 (Android 6 and below is no longer supported) iOS 14 and above (iOS 13 and below are no longer supported). Unfortunately, we can no longer support Kindle Fire HD 8 (2017), Kindle 2015 and devices older than Kindle 15 anymore.
How can I find all the games?
To find your favourite game, you just need to select the CBeebies show or Learning area collection first. Then you'll see all games and videos available from that show or collection. To help you find games you've played before, head to the 'My Games’ collection on the main carousel.
What is in the BBC Bitesize area?
The BBC Bitesize area is a brand-new collection designed to introduce your child to Reception and what’s it like to start school. There is a fun game all about starting school, called ‘My First Day At School’ and some video content that will help your child as they transition to Reception and move in to the world of BBC Bitesize.
How do I download games to play offline?
Every time you download a game, we add this to the CBeebies Little Learners 'My Games’ collection. When offline, you can go here to see the games your child has played without an internet connection.
How do I remove downloaded games?
To remove games from CBeebies Little Learners to free up space on your device all you need to do is:

Launch the app and navigate to 'My Games’ on the main carousel - here you will see all your downloaded games.
For the content you want to remove, tap on the bin icon on the top right of the image.

Will the new version of the app take up more space on my phone?
No, the app will not take up more space on your phone and if you want to keep the size of the app small, you can delete individual games from the 'My Games’ collection whenever you want. You can always download those games again at any time.
How do I get the new CBeebies Little Learners app?
From 18th December 2024 the new app will be available to everyone through the Apple/Google Play/Amazon app stores. If you have auto updates turned on, you will be automatically updated to the new version of the CBeebies Little Learners app. If you haven't, then you can manually update by visiting your app store and updating the app.




Get Creative

The CBeebies Get Creative app is available to download via the Apple, Google Play and Amazon app stores. 
How has Get Creative changed?
The new version of Get Creative has a simple navigation, like the CBeebies Playtime Island app and CBeebies Storytime app, so children can find their favourite art tools for their favourite shows even easier than before. By tapping on their favourite CBeebies show or seasonal character they are taken to the art tools available, then they simply select what they want to do and get creative!
We have also added some great new features, such as the ‘My Favourites’ which lets you see all your child’s favourite art tools for different shows or seasonal event in one place. Once played and downloaded, these creative activities can then be played offline, for those times when you need them to hand quickly!
Why has Get Creative changed?
We wanted to redesign the navigation of the Get Creative app to make it even easier for children to find and play with their favourite CBeebies art tools.
If your child already plays with CBeebies Storytime or CBeebies Playtime Island, this new version of the app has a very similar navigation, so will hopefully be familiar to use.
From a technical perspective the new version of the Get Creative app can now be more easily updated, so we can continue to add new features and improvements, so it’s even better in the future for your child.
How can I find my favourite shows to make art with?
Just tap on that CBeebies show character. Then you or your child will be able to see all the art tools associated with that show.
To help you find all the CBeebies art tools your child has played with before, head over to the ‘My Favourites’ collection on the main carousel.
How can I find my favourite art tools?
All you need to do is choose your child’s favourite CBeebies show or seasonal event from the main carousel, and then they will be able to choose the type of art tool they want to use. Magic Paint, Block Builder, Terrific Toys, Play Puppets and Sound Doodles will all then be available for them to choose to play with.
What is My Favourites?
When your child has played with an art tool for a show or seasonal event, they will automatically be downloaded and stored in the ‘My Favourites’ collection. It’s a great place to find your child’s favourite art tool for their favourite CBeebies friend easily. The other great thing is anything that is downloaded into the ‘My Favourites’ collection can be used when you are offline and are not connected to the internet!
Why am I unable to update to the new version of the app?
The minimum operating system levels that we support are Android 7 and above and iOS 14 and above. If your device is on Android 6 or below, or iOS 13 or below, or you have a Kindle Fire HD 8 (2017), Kindle 2015 device or devices older than Kindle 15, unfortunately you will not see this new update for Get Creative. As device operating systems update over time, it becomes increasingly difficult to keep our apps working as well as we'd like. If you are a new user to Get Creative trying to download the app with Android 6 or below, or iOS 13 or below unfortunately you won't see the app in the stores as your device doesn't meet the minimum operating system requirements.
Which devices/software are compatible with the app?
Minimum Operating System levels are: Android 7 and above (Android 6 and below is no longer supported) iOS 14 and above (iOS 13 and below are no longer supported). Unfortunately, we can no longer support Kindle Fire HD 8 (2017), Kindle 2015 and devices older than Kindle 15 anymore.
How do I download art tools to play offline?
Every time an art tool for a show or seasonal event is downloaded and played, it will be saved in the ‘My Favourites’ collection. When you're offline go here to see the art tools you have downloaded, and you can use them without internet connection.
Will the new version of the app take up more space on my phone?
The file size of the app will depend on how many art tools are downloaded. If you think Get Creative is taking up too much space on your device, and you want to manage the size of the app, you can do this by going to the ‘My Favourites’ collection and deleting individual art tools. You can always download these art tools again at any time.
How do I get the new version of the app?
The new version of the app will be available in app stores. If you have auto-updates turned on, you will be automatically updated as soon as the new version is available. If you haven't, then you can manually update by visiting your app store and updating the app. 




Storytime

The CBeebies Storytime app is available to download via the Apple, Google Play and Amazon app stores.
Why has CBeebies Storytime changed?
The old Storytime app was 7 years old and built on old technology that has become increasingly difficult to update and fix in recent times. By updating the app with new technology, it will work better, and we will be able to make improvements to keep things fresh and exciting. We also wanted to refresh the app to make it easier for children to find the amazing stories and to use the app independently.
How has CBeebies Storytime changed?
The new and improved CBeebies Storytime has a simple navigation, like the CBeebies Playtime Island app, so children can use the app and find their favourite stories even easier than before. By tapping on your favourite CBeebies show or the CBeebies Bedtime Stories collection you are taken to the stories available, then you simply select 'read to me' or 'read by myself' to choose the story and enjoy!
There is a new 'My Stories' area where you can delete stories from your library which haven't been read in a while. This will reduce the amount of space CBeebies Storytime takes up on your device.
We have updated the app with new stories from CBeebies shows and familiar authors. The new stories have beautiful animations, delightful interactions which don't interfere with the story and dynamic page transitions to take children on a magical reading journey and inspire a love of stories in children. To keep the new app focused on inspiring a love of stories, we have removed the comprehension questions that appeared at the end of the old stories.
We will be adding new stories to the app throughout the year and this update means that we can highlight new stories to you easily and let you know when there is something new and exciting to read.
Why am I unable to update to the new app?
The minimum operating system levels that we support are Android 7 and above and iOS 14 and above. If your device is on Android 6 or below, or iOS 13 or below, or you have a Kindle Fire HD 8 (2017), Kindle 2015 device or devices older than Kindle 15, unfortunately you will not see this new update for CBeebies Storytime. As device operating systems update over time, it becomes increasingly difficult to keep our apps working as well as we'd like. You can continue to use the original Storytime app for now but you will see no further updates and we cannot guarantee that it will continue to function as expected if you were to update your device’s software. If you are a new user to CBeebies Storytime trying to download the app with Android 6 or below, or iOS 13 or below unfortunately you won't see the app in the stores as your device doesn't meet the minimum operating system requirements.
Which devices/software are compatible with the app?
Minimum Operating System levels are: Android 7 and above (Android 6 and below is no longer supported) iOS 14 and above (iOS 13 and below are no longer supported). Unfortunately, we can no longer support Kindle Fire HD 8 (2017), Kindle 2015 and devices older than Kindle 15 anymore.
Why have you removed stories from CBeebies Storytime and can I still access them?
As we have updated the Storytime app with brand new technology, it means that we have had to retire a lot of the stories from the old Storytime app, as the app was built on old technology, which was hard to fix and update. By updating the app with new technology, it will work better, and we will be able to make improvements to keep things fresh and exciting. The new app will also be easier for little ones to use and there are brand new stories to enjoy. We do understand that change can be difficult for many children and so we have made lots of the old CBeebies Storytime app stories available on the CBeebies website as video playthroughs here.
Whilst the stories are no longer interactive, children can still snuggle up and watch the stories as videos, either independently or with a grown up.
How can I find all the stories?
To find your favourite story, you just need to select the CBeebies show or CBeebies Bedtime Stories collection first. Then you'll see all stories available from that show or collection. To help you find stories you've played before, head to the 'My Stories' collection on the main carousel.
How do I download stories to play offline?
Every time you download a story, we add this to the CBeebies Storytime 'My Stories' collection. When you're offline go here to see the stories you can read without an internet connection.
How do I remove downloaded stories?
To remove stories from CBeebies Storytime to free up space on your device all you need to do is:

Launch the app and navigate to 'My Stories' on the main carousel - here you will see all your downloaded stories
For the content you want to remove, tap on the bin icon at the top right of the image

Which stories have been removed?
With the relaunch of the CBeebies Storytime app in 2021 we have had to remove a lot of stories from the older version of the app, as lots of them are no longer compatible with the new app. We do understand that change can be difficult for many children and so we have made lots of the older CBeebies Storytime app stories available on the CBeebies website as video playthroughs here.
Whilst the stories are no longer be interactive, children can still snuggle up and watch the stories as videos, either independently or with a grown up.
Will the new version of the app take up more space on my phone?
No, the app will not take up more space on your phone and if you want to keep the size of the app small, you can delete individual stories from the 'My Stories' collection whenever you want. You can always download those stories again at any time.
How do I get the new app?
From July 2021 the new app will be available to everyone through the Apple/Google Play/Amazon app stores. If you have auto updates turned on, you will be automatically updated to the new version of the CBeebies Storytime app. If you haven't, then you can manually update by visiting your app store and updating the app.
Is the Storytime app available in multiple languages?
In the Apple iTunes app store it references that the Storytime app is available in multiple languages. This is an error and the CBeebies Storytime app is currently only available to download in English within the UK only and we are in touch with Apple to try and resolve this.




Playtime

Why is the Playtime app being retired?
The CBeebies Playtime app is being decommissioned because the technology that was used to build it is now outdated for many newer devices, and is not accessible for users with impairments. The older technology also means that Playtime is much bigger than similar apps, and takes up a lot of space on your device. From 2018, the Playtime app is no longer being supported technically.
What alternatives are there to the CBeebies Playtime app?
For more fun games with your CBeebies favourites download the CBeebies Playtime Island app! You can download it from the Apple, Google Play and Amazon app stores. 
All the games in CBeebies Playtime Island are designed to meet the needs of children and their parents, with a focus on learning, bonding, discovery and self-expression. The advantage of using CBeebies Playtime Island is so your little one can shape the app themselves!
As we add more games to the app, children can add and remove games according to their developing tastes and needs. By adding and removing games, grown-ups and children can manage the amount of storage space the app takes up on a device. CBeebies Playtime Island is a free app that has no in-app purchases and a parental gate to avoid children accidentally going to the app store. It also contains accessibility features such as subtitles for those with a hearing impairment.
For something to get your child's imaginations soaring, why not try the CBeebies Get Creative app. Available to download via the Apple, Google Play and Amazon app stores.
Will there be any more updates to the Playtime app?
There will no longer be any updates to the Playtime app, and the app will be retired during 2018. When that happens, the app won't be available for download from your app store and you'll no longer be able to use it on your device.
You can also play CBeebies games on the CBeebies website.
For a different app-based experience, you can also download the CBeebies Storytime app.




Technical help

Why am I getting no sound on my iPhone?
Your iPhone ringer mute switch may be activated in which case you just need to switch it to unmute so that the red indicator is no longer visible – you can find it on the side of your iPhone. 
Why am I getting no sound on my iPad?
Your iPad’s ringer mute switch may be activated, in which case you just need to switch to unmute so that the red indicator is no longer visible – you can find it on the side of your iPad.
If this doesn’t solve the problem it may be that your ringer mute is set in Control Centre rather than by the hardware switch on the side of your iPad:
Step 1: Access Control Centre by swiping up on the screen
Step 2: If there is a mute button, tap it to unmute 
Alternatively you can set the switch on the side of your iPad to be a ringer mute by changing it in Settings:
Step 1: Open the settings app on your iPad home screen
Step 2: Tap ‘General’
Step 4: Find the section marked ‘USE SIDE SWITCH TO’
Step 5: Tap ‘Mute’ so that a tick appears next to the it - the switch on your iPad now controls muting instead of Lock Rotation
Step 6: Toggle the switch on the side of your iPad to unmute it (the red indicator should not be visible on the switch)
Do I need a WiFi connection to use the CBeebies apps?
You will need a WiFi connection to initially download CBeebies apps to your mobile or tablet but currently once downloaded you no longer need an internet connection. Your little one can take their CBeebies world out and about; to the supermarket, in the car, or even on holiday abroad!
It’s a great way to keep little ones entertained without having to worry about a WiFi connection or data allowance.
You will also need WiFi access if you wish to download new stories from the Storytime app's library or download new games in the Playtime Island app. Please keep this in mind before deleting stories or games.
When you first update the Playtime Island app to activate the download feature, any existing games you had will need to be added again. Although you can do this via a 3G or 4G connection, you might prefer to do this while you are connected to WiFi in order to save your data allowance.
I'm having a problem with the CBeebies apps that isn't covered here.
If your question isn't answered here, please contact cbeebiesinteractive@bbc.co.uk for support.




What is the difference between the CBeebies apps and the CBeebies website on mobile and tablet devices?
The CBeebies website (bbc.co.uk/cbeebies) offers free games, clips and more for your little ones via a web browser, which requires an internet connection, whereas CBeebies Playtime Island, CBeebies Go Explore, CBeebies Get Creative and CBeebies Storytime apps (once downloaded) are installed on your device which means that they are available for your little ones to use on the go with no WiFi or 3G connection needed.
You can make the website look like an app on your device's Homescreen by adding it as a bookmark. This will help your child find loads more games easily. You can find out how to do that here. 
The Storytime app makes the most of the touch screen and native features of handheld devices, as well as allowing children to read and play ‘on the go’ without the need for WiFi.
The app benefits from certain interactions that desktop devices can’t deliver, such as the use of tilt and using the microphone output.
These extra interactions create fun and an engaging experience for our young audience, their parents and carers.




CBEEBIES RADIO

What is CBeebies Radio?
CBeebies Radio is a daily web-based radio show for pre-school children. It’s a place where children can join in and share adventures in the company of their favourite CBeebies friends. We also have online listening activities where they can listen and join in even more. CBeebies Radio is here to help grown-ups and their family routines - listen, download and take away!
How can my child listen to CBeebies Radio?
You can either listen to CBeebies on the BBC Sounds app, or download our podcast to your mobile, tablet or mp3 device. You can go to the BBC Podcasts page to download any of those shows to keep forever.
Find more information about CBeebies Radio here. 




THE CBEEBIES WEBSITE

Why isn’t the CBeebies website working for me?
There could be a number of reasons why the CBeebies website is not working for you. The site may not be working because it is experiencing technical difficulties, which we always try to fix as soon possible. If this is the case please wait a little while and then come back to the site later, once we have had time to fix the problem.
When trying to view the CBeebies homepage, I’m seeing a message that says ‘oops, you can’t see this activity’ – what should I do?
If you're seeing this message, it's likely that the browser you're using isn't a sufficiently up to date version to access the content on the homepage
Try updating to the most recent version of whichever browser you are using.
Why don’t some games work on my Android device?
Mobile devices often come with several different mobile browsers installed and not all of them will run our games. If you have a problem loading certain CBeebies games, try them in a different mobile browser.
Why can’t I watch CBeebies website video content or play games from overseas?
Access to the BBC's website is restricted, meaning that overseas users are prevented from seeing content on www.bbc.co.uk. This is because unfortunately many programmes have broadcast rights restrictions which don't allow us to show CBeebies programmes and content to people outside the UK.   In addition, broadband content is expensive for the BBC to stream, so we have to give priority to people within the UK, who ultimately bear the cost of us doing this through their licence fee. However, as more and more people outside the UK are starting to watch CBeebies from abroad, there is an international website at www.cbeebies.com, which is steadily growing and may provide some of the content you are missing.
I am in the UK, but get an error message saying that I am not
Sometimes even though you're in the UK, it's possible you may see a message saying you're not. This could be because your computer is on a foreign-based network, or is routed overseas without you knowing. Some computer programs, such as web accelerators, can also cause your computer’s unique IP (Internet Protocol) address to appear as if it is outside the UK.
For rights and licensing reasons, our BBC technology system only recognises IP addresses provided by UK-based internet service providers (ISPs). If a CBeebies activity doesn't recognise your IP address at all, then you won't be able to play, stream or download the activity. You may find this problem occurs elsewhere, beyond CBeebies.
What can I do about it?
Occasionally it may simply be a network error, so it's worth closing your browser and turning your broadband/network router box off and on. This may get you a new UK-based IP address.
If this doesn’t work, you must contact your internet service provider (ISP) as only they can register your address. If your ISP has registered with the appropriate databases, our servers will update on the next regular refresh. You will have to wait until that time before you can play. Please do keep trying us on a regular basis to see if the situation has changed.
Why am I now seeing an error message saying I’m outside the UK, when I wasn’t previously?
Sometimes your internet service provider (ISP) will allocate you a new IP address, or will carry out maintenance work that means you are given a new IP address. In some cases, this IP address will not yet be registered by your ISP as being in the United Kingdom, and as such CBeebies will no longer recognise you as being in the UK, even if you are. This is something your ISP is best placed to fix, so you must contact your ISP as they alone can register your address.
Why has my child’s favourite CBeebies show gone from the website?
With brand new CBeebies shows and characters arriving on the website and the CBeebies channel all the time, we sometimes need to remove older shows in order to make it easier for our young audience to find their way around the website and to enable our team to focus on supporting new and innovative content. Shows are also occasionally removed from the CBeebies website because they are no longer licensed by CBeebies.
We always try to balance our online offering so that it includes a range of CBeebies shows that work well online, and appeal to children of different ages and needs.
Why are some games and activities not available on the CBeebies website?
Sometimes content needs to be removed from the website because the brand is no longer licensed by us and we have to take down any relevant content, sometimes it is because technology has moved on and we are trying to fix the game - we always try to bring back as many as possible.
If your child is struggling to cope with the change, we suggest you spend a little time sitting with them and exploring the rest of the website. Who knows – you may find a new favourite! You can also read our Grown-ups article on Helping Children Deal with Change
Should you access a game or activity where the page looks 'blank', it does not necessarily mean that the page is broken. It just means that the content has been removed. On the few occasions where we need to remove content, we also remove direct access to them by amending our menu pages so that the risk of you accessing a missing piece of content is minimised.
Legal or 'rights' issues can also mean we are unable to provide theme tunes or other video clips for some brands.
We regret that it is not possible to send any of this content to you.
Why do I see a pop-up on the CBeebies website asking me to accept cookies?
When you go on the CBeebies site you might see a pop-up asking you to accept cookies. CBeebies cookies are completely harmless – we use them (among other technology) to make the site better by remembering what you’ve done already.
For example, the Alphablocks game takes your child to a new word every time and shows them the stickers they’ve already earned, instead of them always having to go back to the beginning. You’ll need to tick continue on the pop-up to get the best experience of the site.
CBeebies (along with nearly every other website) has been using cookies to enhance our site for years but because of new guidelines, sites now have to add the pop-up. You can find out more about cookies on BBC Webwise.
The CBeebies website is telling me to enable JavaScript – what should I do?
Many websites use JavaScript, which is a type of computer language, to work. The CBeebies website needs JavaScript to run correctly. It comes automatically installed with your browser and checking whether it is enabled is relatively easy.
If you are being asked to enable JavaScript please follow the steps below. If you are being told to turn on JavaScript when you already have it enabled, try clearing the cache in your browser or refreshing the web page.
Google Chrome
1. Click the 'Customise and control Google Chrome' button in the top right of the browser.
2. Next click the 'Settings' option.
3. Scroll down to the bottom of the tab and click 'Show advanced settings'
4. Under the 'Privacy' settings, click the 'Content settings' button.
5. Next, scroll down to the 'Javascript' heading and check the button next to 'Allow all sites to run JavaScript'.
6. Press the 'Done' button and then reload the page which needs JavaScript.
Internet Explorer
1. Go to the 'Tools' menu in IE and choose 'Internet Options'.
2. Click the 'Security' tab.
3. Make sure the 'Internet Zone' is highlighted and press the 'Custom Level' button to open the security options.
4. Look for the entry near the bottom of the list which says 'Scripting', then 'Active Scripting' and make sure it is enabled.
5. Press 'OK' to close the panels. Now reload the page which needs JavaScript.
Safari
1. In Safari, go to the Safari menu and choose 'Preferences'.
2. Click the 'Security' tab.
3. You can check or uncheck both JavaScript here.
Firefox
1. Go to the 'Firefox' menu in the top left of the browser and select 'Options'.
2. Click the 'Content' tab.
3. Check 'Enable JavaScript' in the main panel and click 'OK'.
Can I download songs, games or stories from the CBeebies website?
It's not possible to download any songs, games or stories from the CBeebies website. You can listen to and join in with many of the songs on the website and some of the music on CBeebies has also been made available on commercial download websites. You can also play CBeebies games without being online using the Playtime Island app and enjoy stories together using the Storytime app. You can download and take away CBeebies Radio podcasts using the BBC iPlayer Radio app





Why have all the 'computer-only' games been removed from the CBeebies website?
Sometimes content needs to be removed from the CBeebies website because the technology has moved on and some games can no longer be supported.
A number of older, computer-only CBeebies games built using Flash have recently been removed from the website for this reason. Wherever possible, we have provided an alternative game or activity for your little one to try instead.
If your child is struggling with the change, why not spend a little time exploring the rest of the website together - you may find a new favourite! Take a look at all of our other great games here. You can also read our article on Helping Children Deal With Change.
We regret that it is not possible to send any of this older content to you, but we hope you can find another great game to play.





Why has the Something Special Tumble Tapp game been removed from the CBeebies website?We have recently had to retire a number of computer-only games that were built in Flash, including the Something Special Tumble Tapp game, because the website's technology has changed and these games no longer work.
We understand that this may be disappointing for some children - if your child is struggling to cope with the change, why not spend a little time exploring the rest of the website together? Who knows, you may find a new favourite! For example, you could try playing Something Special's newer The Looking Game instead. You can also read our article on Helping Children Deal With Change.




USING THE CBEEBIES WEBSITE ON MOBILE OR TABLET DEVICES

Do I need a WiFi connection to access the website when I’m on the go?
We are delighted that our website and digital activities are ‘responsive’ - in other words they should work whether you are on desktop, tablet or a mobile phone.
This allows the separate CBeebies websites (desktop and mobile) to merge into just one bigger, better site. It also allows more compatibility with CBBC who are undergoing similar changes themselves.
This allows you and your child to have fun and access the website, and many of the games and activities, whether you are at home or on the go.
As with all content accessed via a handheld device, you will get the best performance from your mobile browser with a stable WiFi connection. However, you should also be able to enjoy CBeebies games and activities via a 3G connection.
Why do some games and activities not work when I visit the CBeebies website on my handheld device?
The rapid changes in technology are influencing our online habits. Much of the older CBeebies content was built at a time when almost everyone visited the CBeebies website through a desktop computer (for example, a laptop or a home computer). This is especially the case with many of our older games that were never built to work on a phone or a tablet.
However, with such a large portion of the CBeebies audience now visiting the website through handheld devices, we’re working hard to build our new content in such a way that it works responsively. This means that this content will work across both computers and handheld devices.
So while there will still be some games and activities that do not work on your phone or tablet, rest assured that we are working hard to create new and innovative digital content that can be enjoyed by you and child on different devices, at home or on the go.
Why don’t some games work on my Android device?
Mobile devices often come with several different mobile browsers installed and not all of them will run our games. If you have a problem loading certain CBeebies games, try them in a different mobile browser.
Why can’t I play games on my handheld device?
As hard as we might try not all of the mobile devices on the market will support the technology, but we have made every effort to cater for the some of the most recent touch screen mobile devices available.
Will accessing games on the go use up my data allowance?
When you access any streaming data via an internet browser on your tablet or mobile phone (e.g. videos, music or games) this will be distributed through your contracted data allowance with your provider. At CBeebies we try hard to keep file sizes to a minimum but still give you the best possible experience, so that you and your little one can have fun and play CBeebies games on the go.
The games have loaded on the site, but I can’t play them…
CBeebies games are designed and built to be viewed in landscape view on a handheld device to optimise the screen space and usage for our young audience. If you are having difficulties getting the game to start once it has loaded, check to see if your phone is locked in portrait rotation. If it is, simply unlock it, rotate your phone or tablet to landscape and press play.
I am getting an error message that says ‘Media selection request failed’…
For rights reasons some activities on the CBeebies mobile website can only be played in the UK. If you try to watch CBeebies video clips from abroad, you will see an error message which says ‘Media selection request failed’.
If you're in the UK but see a message claiming that you're outside the UK, it's because your data connection is being routed via overseas servers. Try closing your browser and reopening it, and (if applicable) restart your WiFi router – it may be a simple network connection error.
If you're using a public WiFi network (eg. on a train) this may route your connection overseas. Please try again later using a different network.
If you're using the Opera Mini browser, try switching to your phone's default browser. If none of these suggestions help or if you are connected via 3G, please contact your ISP (internet service provider) or network operator.
For rights and licensing reasons, our BBC technology system only recognises IP addresses provided by UK-based internet service providers (ISPs).
If a CBeebies activity doesn't recognise your IP address at all, then you won't be able to play, stream or download the activity. You may find this problem occurs elsewhere, beyond CBeebies.
CBeebies games and iOS7
If you are using Apple iOS7, on any of your mobile devices, you may experience some issues with how CBeebies games display.
Games may not fill the screen if your device is in landscape view and, during game play, the top and bottom toolbars can come into view and obscure your view of some game controls.
We’re aware of this issue, and as a workaround, quickly flipping your device to portrait view then back to landscape should fix the problem.




CBEEBIES SKILL FOR SMART SPEAKERS

Which shows and characters will I find on the CBeebies skill?
There's lots to explore and play in the CBeebies skill - listen to stories read by special guests, play games, and sing along to some of your favourite songs.
Games
The CBeebies skill has interactive voice games from Hey Duggee, Justin's House, Go Jetters, Waffle the Wonder Dog and CBeebies presenters. You'll come across lots of your CBeebies favourites while playing, including Duggee and the Squirrels, Little Monster, Foz and Grandmaster Glitch!We're planning to add lots more voice games in the coming months too.
Stories
You can listen to well known children's stories read by a selection of special guests. Choose from stories narrated by Olly Murs, Dolly Parton, Tom Hardy, George Ezra and Jodie Whittaker - and now classic fairytales with Maddie Moate.
Songs
Listen to Mr. Tumble singing some of your favourite nursery rhymes, like ‘Wheels on the Bus’, 'Aunt Polly Had a Dolly' and ‘Twinkle Twinkle Little Star’ and popular Christmas numbers like Jingle Bells, Santa Claus is Coming to Town, Winter Wonderland and other festive favourites.As well as have fun singing along with CBeebies friends, your little one can learn about the alphabet, counting and pets in Sing With CBeebies.
Which voice-activated speaker platform is CBeebies skill available on?
The CBeebies voice experience is currently only available on Amazon Alexa devices.We're currently only supporting Amazon Echo devices with the AudioPlayer interface. We're working to integrate with other devices as soon as we can.You'll find a full list of devices we don't support in the 'known issues' section.How do I enable the CBeebies skill on Alexa?The CBeebies skill can be enabled in two ways:

By visiting the Amazon Alexa companion app and searching for 'BBC Kids' in the Skills section.
By asking your smart speaker to 'open BBC Kids' or 'open CBeebies'.

If you don't already have children's skills enabled on your Alexa device, you'll need to enable these permissions. You can do this via the companion app, or on the Amazon Alexa website. 
How do I change permissions to allow children's skills?
To enable children's skills, the Amazon account holder needs to change the relevant permissions. It's quick and easy to do:

Go to the Alexa companion app or the Amazon Alexa website https://alexa.amazon.co.uk/
Click or tap on settings, then go to 'Kids Skills'.
Click or swipe the 'Allow Kids Skills' toggle to the 'on' position.
Once activated, all children's skills from the BBC and other content providers can be enabled and used.
You can turn this off at any time.

How do I open the CBeebies skill?
To open the CBeebies skill, say "Alexa, open CBeebies".
How do I use the CBeebies skill?
General help

After you've said the 'wake word' (such as 'Alexa'), wait for a second before asking your question or giving an answer.
Wait for the light to appear on your smart speaker before talking.
Don't forget to stand close to the speaker, and make sure you speak clearly.
You can say 'Alexa, help' at any time to get help on how to use BBC Kids.

 Playing a game with the CBeebies skill

When you open the skill you'll be asked to choose from a game, story or song, choose 'game' then listen to find out which of your CBeebies friends are here to play.
Pick your favourite to play a game with them by saying their name when prompted, or you can ask for another if you know its name.
If you can't decide, don’t worry - you can say 'surprise' instead. 

How to play a game

In Little Monster's Hide and Seek, listen for the sounds to help Justin find where Little Monster is hiding. She hides in lots of different places - can you find them all?
In Go Jetters: Glitchy Facts, Grandmaster Glitch has scrambled Ubercorn's funky facts. It's up to you to save the day by helping Foz to sort the glitchy facts from the funky facts!
In Duggee and the Music Badge - make your own music and earn your music badge as the newest Squirrel.
In Waffle the Wonder Dog – Don’t Disturb Mrs Hobbs - can you help Waffle to play with George the cat without waking up Mrs Hobbs?
In Move It - dance and move to the instructions from Cat or Ryan from the CBeebies House.

How to listen to a story

When you open the skill you'll be asked to chose from a game, story or song; choose 'story' then listen to hear two story options.
You can can choose one of these, or ask for another if you know its name.
If you can't decide, don’t worry - you can say 'surprise' instead.

How to listen to a song

When you open the skill you'll be asked to choose from a game, story or song, choose 'song' then listen to hear two song options.
You can can choose one of these, or ask for another if you know it's name.
If you can't decide, don’t worry - you can say 'surprise' instead.

How do I exit the CBeebies skill?
There are lots of ways to leave the CBeebies skill on Alexa. You can say:

Alexa, Stop
Alexa, Close
Alexa, Off
Alexa, Quit

My voice-activated speaker doesn't understand my child's voice. Why?
Voice recognition technology is currently optimised for grown-ups. This means that sometimes, your child's voice may not be understood. To make the most of the current technology, we've designed the CBeebies skill to be as concise, simple, and as easy to interact with as possible.
Known issues
The Alexa SDK AudioPlayer is currently needed for the CBeebies skill. The following devices do not fully support the AudioPlayer:Amazon Fire TV Stick with AlexaSonos devices with AlexaAny other audio speakers with AlexaWe're aware of this limitation, and we're working alongside our partners to find a solution. We don't currently know if, or when, this issue will be addressed.We're also working with our partners to improve the user experience on Amazon Echo Show devices.The CBeebies skill may 'timeout' if it isn’t used for a few hours. For example, if the skill was open in the evening and wasn't used overnight, the first user the following morning may hear “the requested skill took too long to respond”.The CBeebies skill is only designed to be played on one device per account at a time. If the skill is running on multiple devices on the same account at the same time, it may not behave as expected.If your question isn't answered here, please contact cbeebiesinteractive@bbc.co.uk for support. Please note that we can only provide support for the BBC Kids skill.




What data does the CBeebies skill collect? 
Amazon passes us a device identifier which is hashed to disguise it.  We use this to collect information about user’s use of the skill which helps us improve the skill. The CBeebies skill does not collect any information that enables individual users to be identified.
You can find out more about your privacy rights and the BBC’s Privacy and Cookies Policy athttps://www.bbc.co.uk/privacy
Parental controls
We are working with the current technology to allow parents and caregivers more control over their experience and data.
To access the CBeebies skill, the account holder needs to switch on the 'Allow Kids Skills' parental toggle, and accept  Amazon's Terms of Use. The account holder can switch the toggle off at any time if they choose to disable the skill. Alternatively, they can disable the skill from the Amazon Alexa skill store.
What data does the BBC receive from Amazon?
The BBC receives a 'hashed' online identifier from Amazon for each device which is disguised by Amazon so we - the BBC - don't know who the user is.
What does the BBC do with the data?
We use the data so that we can:
1) Understand how many people have used our skill, to ensure this is a good use of the license fee
2) Enable core game play functionality, such as what level or question you're at in a voice 'game'
We store usage data in our logs. This helps us to understand user behaviour and where there are problems, or areas for improvement.
In addition to the original online identifier being hashed by Amazon, the BBC also hashes the identifier again when we use it for analytics purposes to disguise it further. This makes sure that any data we handle is as safe as possible. 
The BBC is the data controller of the data we collect from users of the skill.
How long do we keep the data for?
The BBC only keeps data for the minimum time needed.
For analytics purposes the unique device identifier we receive from Amazon is not passed to ATI or stored by the BBC. The unique identifier that has been further disguised by the BBC is passed to ATI for analytics purposes.
For the purpose of core game play the unique device identifier we receive from Amazon is stored for 12 hours.
Do you share the data with anyone?
The BBC works with approved partners (ATI and AWS) to provide our analytics services. We currently use a tool known as ATI for analytics reporting purposes, and store data in AWS cloud services.
We do not share user data directly with Amazon. 
What does Amazon do with the data they gather?
Amazon may also access and analyse the user’s use of the BBC skill and are the data controller of that data. You can find out more by reading Amazon’s Privacy Notice
You can see more details on Amazon's Terms of Use.
Legal information
The BBC has a legitimate interest to collect users’ data for the following reasons:

For analytics purposes, using performance stats to help us improve the skill experience 
In order to provide a high quality service for license fee payers.

This does not affect the individual users’ direct experience, but would help us improve the skill and any future skills or voice experience the BBC may develop in the future. We have safeguards in place to ensure the user data collected is processed  securely and not held for longer than necessary.   We believe that this is not an unreasonable infringement on the individual users’ data protection rights and freedoms.
Who can I contact at the BBC about the CBeebies skill? 
We would love to more about your experience of the CBeebies skill. Please get in touch and share your thoughts by email to cbeebiesinteractive@bbc.co.uk.




CBEEBIES UNITY ACTIVITIES ONLINE

CBeebies Games on Google Chrome
Both the Furchester Hotel game and the Time for School 'Mix and Match' game will not play in the Chrome browser, however you can still play both games on the Unity Web Player when installed on Internet Explorer, Firefox or Safari browsers.
Find out more about the Unity Web Player here.




CBEEBIES ON YOUTUBE

Why do you have a CBeebies YouTube channel?
The CBeebies YouTube channel is aimed at a dual audience of adults with children and offers a safe environment where they can enjoy CBeebies content together without the fear of children viewing anything inappropriate. The channel also provides a better opportunity for us to monitor inappropriate uses of CBeebies content appearing elsewhere on YouTube.
The CBeebies YouTube channel aims to deliver inspiring and empowering content that encourages children to dive into the wider world of CBeebies.




INFORMATION ABOUT INDIVIDUAL PROGRAMMES

Is there a transcript of…?
CBeebies does not publish transcripts or make them available to the public.
Can you tell me about music, props or locations featured on CBeebies?
Sorry, we are a very small team and cannot answer individual queries. If your question is about music or locations and is not covered by our FAQs , you might like to post your query on the CBeebies Grown-ups Facebook page to see if another viewer can help.
Can you tell me about old BBC Children’s shows that are no longer on TV?
We cannot answer individual queries about old BBC children's shows, but you may find some useful information on the Classic TV section of the BBC Cult website.
Where is Old Jack’s Boat filmed?
Old Jack’s Boat is filmed in Staithes, near Whitby, on the North East coast of England.
What breed of dog is Salty from Old Jack’s Boat?
Salty is a Hungarian Wire-Haired Viszla.




INFORMATION ABOUT CBEEBIES AND THE BBC

How do I apply for work experience at CBeebies?
All work experience at the BBC has to be arranged centrally. You can get more information on work experience placements by visiting BBC Work Experience.
I am interested in working at CBeebies…
All current vacancies at the BBC are listed on BBC Careers.
I have an idea for a CBeebies programme, where do I send it?
You should try and develop your idea as far as possible including a clear understanding of the exact target age group, why you think your idea will appeal to them and the unique qualities it has to offer that other programmes are lacking. For up-to-date information on BBC Commissioning, visit the BBC Commissioning website. All programmes must go through the BBC e-commissioning process.
Can you send me some images of CBeebies characters for my school / university project?
We cannot send you, or give you permission to use, any images of CBeebies characters for your project.
Can you send me some information about your programmes or audience for my school / university project?
We cannot send you any research into children or our programmes for your project. Many parents/carers are happy to share their experiences and thoughts on the programming that CBeebies makes for their children; but we do request that the number of posts on the Grown-ups Facebook or Twitter sites asking for help with research projects are kept to a minimum. This is because our social media is a resource for the parents/carers to share their thoughts on CBeebies with each other and the BBC, and repeated requests for research data can disrupt the conversation.




RED BUTTON SERVICE

We closed this service in April 2016. 






















Parent and Child



      
      Fun exercises to do at home with kids
    
    




Number of loves 
166


















Grown-ups’ Make



      
      DIY Easy Easter bonnet 
    
    




Number of loves 
6


















New



      
      CBeebies Prom: Wildlife Jamboree tickets 
    
    

CBeebies Presents: Live Shows



Number of loves 
1



















Previous items



Next items

































































All shows













Are you ready to try CBBC?



















































No thanks

Are you ready to try CBBC?












We'll hide these CBBC shows for 30 days.
Bring them back!
Why did you hide them?


Not familiar with CBBC


Didn't like those shows


Too young for CBBC

















                Love this? Sign in to let us know.
            



Sign in
  or
  Register








Something's gone wrong
  
Please try again later












     Explore the BBC      CBeebies     CBeebies iPlayer     Grown-ups     TV Guide     CBBC     Bitesize              Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us   Copyright © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.   Read about our approach to external linking.                 


