



















Privacy Policy - Comscore, Inc.




































Toggle navigation











                            Solutions
                        







AdvertisingMeasure and evaluate advertising across platforms



DigitalMeasure digital audiences for all content types



Marketing ImpactMaximize marketing effectiveness



MoviesMeasure global box office performance



Programmatic TargetingPowerful programmatic tools to target cross-platform audiences




Solutions for

                                                    Automotive

                                                    Digital Media

                                                    Financial Services

                                                    Pharmaceutical 

                                                    Retail

                                                    Technology

                                                    Travel





                            Clients
                        


                                    Overview
                                




                            Insights
                        




Overview
Rankings
Blog
Presentations & Whitepapers
Join our Email List



Trending Topics
Streaming
Box Office
Sports


Featured










Audience Recommendations for Every Vertical








                            Events
                        


                                    Overview
                                




                            About
                        


                                    Overview
                                
Press Room
Leadership
Investor Relations
Partners
Locations
Privacy
Security
Third-Party Accreditation




                            Careers
                        


                                    Overview
                                
Job Opportunities






English



                Deutsch
            

                Español (América Latina)
            

                Español (España)
            

                Français
            

                Italiano
            

                Português
            



Login

My Comscore Home
Comscore TV
OnDemand Essentials
Box Office Essentials
International Box Office Essentials
Shareablee


Contact us


























Effective Date: October 3, 2023Comscore, Inc. (“Comscore”, “we”, “us” or “our”) interacts with current and prospective clients, investors, and the general public via its website, www.comscore.com (“Website”), its mobile application (“Application”), and other Comscore portals. Our online research community has millions of participants who are interested in voicing their opinions as described in the applicable privacy policies and in influencing which products and services are offered.Comscore subsidiaries operate several research panels and the ScorecardResearch business, which are not governed by this Policy and have different practices. Each panel is governed by the privacy policy that appears on the website assigned to that research panel. Some ScorecardResearch activities are described below where relevant to this Policy. For more details on ScorecardResearch, please view the ScorecardResearch privacy policy here.This Privacy Policy (“Policy”) describes how we process – or, in other words, use, collect, transmit, store, share, and delete – your personal information in connection with your use of our Website, our Application, or other services that refer to or link to this Policy.The short versionAs further described below, under this Policy we may collect the following categories of information (which may be considered personal information or sensitive personal information under certain laws):personal and online identifiers,Internet or other electronic network activity,general geolocation information (inferred from IP address), or precise geolocation information, andother information about you that is linked to personal information.We may collect information about you or your household from third parties as well. For details about our practices, please read this entire Policy. What information is collected and whyWe may collect personal information that you choose to provide to us. For example, if you contact us through our Website, we may collect personal identifiers (e.g., your name and contact information) as well as any other information that you voluntarily provide to us in order to respond to your inquiry or verify your identity, where necessary. We may also collect personal information that you provide to us when you register for any of our services.Information collected automatically when you visit our Websites or use our Application. Our Website and Application automatically create logs regarding your activity on our Website. These logs may identify the features that you use, the actions that you take, and the information that you access while on our Website or mobile Application.The personal information collected from you in these logs may include online identifiers (e.g., IP address) and Internet or other electronic network activity including information about your browsing behavior, operating system, browser type, website preferences, your use of our Website or Application (e.g., time accessed, duration of visit, etc.). We generally use this information in statistical and aggregate formats to assess the effectiveness of our Website and Application and to better understand the priorities and interests of users of our Website and Application.Information collected using ScorecardResearch cookies or similar technologies (“Tags”). This Website may set tags on your browser that collect data for the ScorecardResearch service, a service offered by Full Circle Studies, Inc. (“Full Circle Studies”) which is also part of the Comscore internet ratings and research group. To view the ScorecardResearch privacy policy, please click here.Information collected by third parties.We may use third parties and service providers to obtain personal information and combine that data with other data that we collect from or about you to improve our Website, Application, products, and services, and to operate our business. Third parties may set a cookie on your computer or device when you visit the Website Application. Third parties may also collect online identifiers associated with your device such as cookie identifiers, mobile or other hardware or device identifiers, and IP addresses.We may work with third parties, including Google Analytics, who collect information about your use of our Website, other websites, and/or online services over time for non-advertising purposes. For more information about how Google Analytics collects and uses information when you use our Website or Application, please click here. To opt out of Google Analytics, click here.Sensitive Personal Information Collected.Some of the personal information described above is considered sensitive personal information under certain U.S. state privacy laws.  Applying the definitions in these laws, we collect the following categories of sensitive personal information:Personal information revealing racial or ethnic origin, religious or philosophical beliefs, union membership, a mental or physical condition or diagnosis, sex life or sexual orientation, or citizenship or citizenship status.We use the categories of sensitive personal information listed above for the purposes described in this Policy, including some purposes that you have the right to limit as described below.  How we share the information we collectSharing for business purposes. We may provide personal information to all categories of third parties and/or service providers listed in this Policy to improve our products and services and to operate our business. We may share all the categories of information listed in this Policy with other companies including Comscore affiliates, subsidiaries, or parent companies as well as third-party data enrichers, data quality aggregators and providers of data matches services:to operate our products and services or support general operations;to integrate the products and services of our business partners;to use third-party cloud services to host our Website, and process and store the information we process about you; andfor any other legitimate business purpose.Sharing for commercial purposes. We may share information collected under this Policy with:our customers, which include, among others, media companies including Google, brands, public relations companies, advertising networks, data analytics providers, distribution partners, and social networks, and marketing and advertising agencies; andjoint industry committees (“JICs”) involved in media audience measurement and research.Under U.S. state privacy laws, these disclosures may qualify as “sales”. To the extent that our business model constitutes a “sale” under state privacy laws, we shared for interest-based advertising and otherwise “sold” the following categories of personal information in the last 12 months: online identifiers, Internet or other electronic network activity, general geolocation information (inferred from IP address), and other information about you that is linked to personal information. We do not “sell” or share for interest-based advertising any sensitive personal information as defined under U.S. state privacy laws. We “sell”  and share each category of information to the categories of third parties listed above.Corporate transactions. In the event of a corporate sale, merger, reorganization, dissolution or similar event, any personal information and data we process from you may become part of the assets we transfer or share in preparation for any such transaction. Any acquirer or successor of Comscore may continue to process personal information consistent with this Privacy Policy.Compliance and compelled disclosures. We may share personal information:with public authorities to respond to subpoenas, court orders, and other legal lawful requests, including to meet national security or law enforcement requirements, or as otherwise required by law;to protect the rights, privacy, safety, and property of Comscore, our customers, our business partners, or others; andto exercise our legal rights or defend against legal claims, to enforce our contracts, to investigate, respond to and resolve problems or inquiries (including governmental inquiries), or to permit us to pursue available remedies or limit the damages that we may sustain.How long we keep the information collectedWe store your information for as long as is reasonably necessary for the purposes listed above or as required by applicable local law.Your choices about your personal informationCertain U.S. state and international laws provide individuals with rights related to their personal information. These consumer rights, and the definitions of “personal information” or “personal data” subject to these rights, vary by jurisdiction. Individuals may be able to exercise the following rights, subject to certain exceptions:,The right to confirm whether Comscore processes personal information about you; The right to access the categories and specific pieces of personal information collected, used, shared, and sold, and the categories of third parties to whom personal information is sold or shared;,  The right to correct any errors to personal information; The right to object to the processing of personal information; and  The right to delete the personal information;  The right to opt out of (i) the “sale” of personal information as defined by applicable law or (ii) the sharing of personal information for targeted advertising;  The right to limit the processing of certain “sensitive” personal information (or to withdraw consent to such processing), as defined by applicable law; and The right not to receive discriminatory treatment for the exercise of privacy rights in accordance with applicable law. To exercise any of the applicable rights above, please visit our Data Subject Rights Page. You may also contact us by email at DSR@comscore.com, or by phone at 1-833-713-1509.We may need to request additional information from you to verify your identity (e.g., your email address, cookie identifier, machine identifier, and/or device identifier) or understand the scope of your request. However, you will not be required to create an account with us to submit a request or have it fulfilled. You may designate an authorized agent to exercise your rights by contacting DSR@comscore.com.For Virginia, Connecticut, or Colorado residents, if you have submitted a request that we have not reasonably fulfilled, you may contact us to appeal our decision by sending an email with the subject line “Appeal” to DSR@comscore.com.We will not discriminate against you for exercising any of the above rights. We may, however, offer you certain financial incentives permitted by applicable law as compensation for allowing us to collect, sell, share, or maintain your personal information through your participation in our market research efforts.For information about the number of requests received on an annual basis and additional metrics, please visit our Data Subject Rights Page. Please note that we may continue to use information collected during the time that you participated in the Panel, and all such information remains fully subject to, and governed by, the Privacy Policy that was effective at the time the information was collected.For more information about your choices in relation to your personal information, including your choice to access and delete your personal information, please visit click here. Interest-based advertising and market researchWhat is interest-based advertising?  Interest-based advertising, also known as online behavioral advertising or targeted advertising, allows advertisers to display ads tailored to your individual interests based on how you browse and shop online.We may use third parties and service providers, as discussed in the What information is collected and why section, to collect information for interest-based advertising. This process may involve third parties and service providers using tagging technology, such as a cookie, on your device. These tags may collect data about your Web browsing over time and across digital properties, including information about the possible relationships among different browsers and devices. We adhere to the Digital Advertising Alliance (“DAA”) Self-Regulatory Principles in connection to all interest-based advertising activities.The information collected from ScorecardResearch Tags is used for interest-based advertising purposes, where appropriate. ScorecardResearch does not use information collected in the European Union (“EU”) for interest-based advertising services.How do I manage my preferences for interest-based advertising?You may visit www.aboutads.info/choices to learn more about interest-based advertising, to opt out of our collection and transfer of Web browsing information for interest-based advertising purposes, and to opt out of the collection and use of information for this purpose by other companies that participate in industry self-regulation. Additionally, to opt out of our collection and transfer of application usage information for third parties to use for their own interest-based advertising purposes, you can use any controls that are provided for this purpose by the operating system on your mobile device. Please note that opting out will not stop advertising from appearing in your browser or in the applications you use. It may make the ads you see less relevant to your interests. You may also continue to receive interest-based advertising from other companies.What is market research? Market research is an organized effort to gather information about markets and customers. With the use of ScorecardResearch tags and surveys, Comscore’s market research group collects and analyzes information to provide products and services to companies around the world.  This information helps companies better understand and meet the needs of consumers. How do I manage my preferences for market research?To control your level of participation in our market research programs or opt out, click here. By opting out of our market research program, ScorecardResearch Tags will only be able to count your visit to a particular site but not identify your device beyond that count. Additionally, if your mobile device platform offers settings to limit data collection for interest-based advertising, you can use these settings to opt out of participating in our market research programs. What does opting out of market research on your browser do?The browser opt-out mechanisms linked above are cookie based (i.e., a cookie must be on your computer to tell our systems that you have opted out). The cookie-based method does not prevent us from identifying certain events (e.g., when a user visits a website).  The method, however, prevents us from associating that event with your browser or otherwise identifying you beyond us merely counting your visit. If you delete, block, or otherwise restrict cookies, this opt-out may not be effective. Additionally, because different computers and different Internet browsers require their own version of the opt-out cookie, you may need to perform this opt-out process on any computers and browsers that you want to be opted-out.Other important information about your personal informationSecurity. We use organizational, technical, and administrative measures to protect your personal information. For an overview of our security measures, click here.Controller of Personal Information. Global privacy laws may differentiate between the controller and processor of personal information. For additional information about Comscore’s role with regards to the processing of personal information, please see  https://www.comscore.com/About/Privacy.International Visitors and Information TransfersIf you visit our Website or participate in our program from locations outside of the United States, please note that any information you provide to us through your use of our Website or your participation in the program may be transferred to and processed in countries other than the country from which you accessed our Website or participated in our program, including the United States where our central database is operated. Subject to the next paragraph below, please be aware that the United States, and other countries in which your data may be maintained, may have data protection laws that are different from the laws in your country.We take measures to help protect your personal information when it is transferred from the European Economic Area (“EEA”) and the United Kingdom to other countries. We may rely on European Commission adequacy decisions about certain countries, as applicable (see here). Where applicable, we rely on standard contractual clauses approved by the European Commission (see here) in our contracts with third parties that receive information outside the EEA and United Kingdom, or we transfer information on the basis of permissible statutory derogations.For individuals based in the EEA, United Kingdom, or Switzerland, Comscore B.V., Hogehilweg 17, 3rd floor, 1101 CB Amsterdam, the Netherlands, is the controller for personal data collected and processed from website visitors and application, unless otherwise stated in an application-specific privacy policy. Comscore B.V. is a subsidiary of Comscore, Inc.For more information about our policies on the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (“GDPR”), please click here. Our GDPR Supplemental Policy includes additional information, which complements this Privacy Policy, relating to the processing of ‘personal data’ and the exercise of rights under the GDPR and United Kingdom data protection laws.The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction over Comscore’s compliance with the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (EU-U.S. DPF) and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (Swiss-U.S. DPF).Comscore (including subsidiaries Creative Knowledge, Inc., Full Circle Studies, Inc., TMRG, Inc., and VoiceFive, Inc.) complies with the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (EU-U.S. DPF), the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (Swiss-U.S. DPF) as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Comscore has certified to the U.S. Department of Commerce that it adheres to the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework Principles (EU-U.S. DPF Principles) with regard to the processing of personal data received from the European Union in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF and from the United Kingdom (and Gibraltar) in reliance on the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF. Comscore has certified to the U.S. Department of Commerce that it adheres to the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework Principles (Swiss-U.S. DPF Principles) with regard to the processing of personal data received from Switzerland in reliance on the Swiss-U.S. DPF. If there is any conflict between the terms in this privacy policy and the EU-U.S. DPF Principles and/or the Swiss-U.S. DPF Principles, the Principles shall govern. To learn more about the Data Privacy Framework (DPF) program, and to view our certification, please visit https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/.In compliance with the EU-U.S. DPF, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. DPF, Comscore commits to resolve DPF Principles-related complaints about our collection and use of your personal information.  EU, UK, and Swiss individuals with inquiries or complaints regarding our handling of personal data received in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. DPF should first contact Comscore at privacy@comscore.com. In compliance with the EU-U.S. DPF and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF and/or the Swiss-U.S. DPF, Comscore commits to refer unresolved complaints concerning our handling of personal data received in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF and/or the Swiss-U.S. DPF to ANA DPF Dispute Resolution, an alternative dispute resolution provider based in the United States. If you do not receive timely acknowledgment of your DPF Principles-related complaint from us, or if we have not addressed your DPF Principles-related complaint to your satisfaction, please visit https://www.ana.net/content/show/id/accountability-dpf-consumers for more information or to file a complaint. The services of ANA DPF Dispute Resolution are provided at no cost to you.Under certain circumstances, individuals may invoke binding arbitration to resolve DPF complaints not resolved by any other means.Comscore is responsible for processing the data it receives or, where applicable, transfers to a third party acting as an agent on its behalf. Comscore complies with the DPF Principles for all onward transfers of personal information from the EU, UK, and Switzerland including the onward transfer liability provisions. Changes to our Privacy PolicyWe reserve the right to modify or update this Policy periodically. If we change our practices with respect to your information, we will notify you by posting a revised Policy on  our Website with a ”Last Updated” date and  such modified or amended version of this policy shall be effective as to you and your information as of that revision date. We encourage you to revisit this Policy periodically to stay informed about our practices with respect to your information.Authoritative Version.  When the text of this Policy is available in multiple languages, the English version is the authoritative version, except where prohibited by applicable law.Contacting ComscoreIf you have any concerns, questions, or would just like to better understand our privacy practices, please send an email to privacy@comscore.com. If you prefer to contact us by mail, please write to Comscore, Inc., ATTN: Privacy, 11950 Democracy Drive, Reston, VA 20190.




Join Our Email List
Stay Connected












                                Home
                            



                                About
                            

Privacy Policy














© 2024 Comscore, Inc. 



                    Privacy Policy
                



                    Terms of Service
                



                Contact Us
            




















© 2024 Comscore, Inc. 



                    Privacy Policy
                



                    Terms of Service
                



                Contact Us
            











×


























