


Personal Finance Tips, Budgeting Advice, and Money Management | Fox Business





 BACK TO    Powered by 
            Mortgages
          Best refinance rates 
              15 of the best mortgage refinance companies for 2021
            
              How to get the best mortgage refinance rates
            
              How to find the best mortgage lender
            
              Is mortgage refinancing still worth pursuing as rates rise?
            
              Should you refinance with your current mortgage lender?
            Cash out refinancing 
              Pros and cons of a cash-out mortgage refinance
            
              What is cash-out refinancing and how does it work?
            
              How does a cash out refinance affect taxes?
            
              Reasons for a cash-out refinance
            Guide to refinancing 
              Mortgage refinance: Everything you need to know
            
              3 reasons to refinance your mortgage immediately
            
              Refinancing your mortgage? 5 questions you should ask first
            
              Here’s why you should (or shouldn’t) refinance your mortgage
            How refinancing works 
              How much does it cost to refinance a mortgage?
            
              How to decide if you should refinance your mortgage
            
              Get the best mortgage rates by following these 5 steps
            
              What are the hidden costs of refinancing a mortgage?
            
              When should you refinance your mortgage?
             More From Mortgages
            Student Loans
          Applying for FAFSA 
              Applying for FAFSA is about to get a lot easier
            
              How to prepare for the FAFSA
            
              Do you qualify for FAFSA?
            
              What does FAFSA cover?
            Best student loans 
              8 private student loans to help you pay for college
            
              Best parent student loans: Private vs. PLUS
            
              7 of the best graduate student loans
            How to refinance 
              How to get the lowest student loan refinance rate
            
              How can I lower my student loan interest rate?
            
              Should I refinance my federal student loans?
            
              Should I refinance my student loans?
            Reduce student loan debt 
              Have $100,000 in student debt? 5 ways to help pay it off
            
              3 ways to reduce your student loan debt
            
              10 of the best student loan refinance companies
            
              Why you should consider refinancing private student loans
            
              Don't ignore low student loan rates — why you should refinance today
             More From Student Loans
            Personal Loans
          Best personal loans 
              Should you take out a personal loan for a home improvement project?
            
              Should you take out a personal loan for a home improvement project?
            
              Best short-term loans: Compare your options
            
              How to find the best personal loan for your needs
            
              17 best personal loans
            Debt consolidation loans 
              Don't fall for these 3 debt consolidation myths
            
              Debt consolidation vs. credit card refinancing: What's the difference?
            
              How to get a debt consolidation loan for bad credit
            
              Should I use a personal loan to consolidate debt?
            
              9 of the best debt consolidation companies
            Pay off credit card debt 
              5 reasons to use a personal loan to pay off credit card debt
            
              This is the best way to pay off a large credit card bill
            
              How to pay off $50,000 in credit card debt
            
              Should you get a personal loan to pay off credit card debt?
            
              How to improve bad credit in 10 ways
            Take out personal loan 
              Where to get a $20K personal loan
            
              Where to get a $40K personal loan
            
              Where to get a $50,000 personal loan
            
              How to get a $100,000 personal loan
            
              Where to get a $10,000 personal loan
             More From Personal Loans
            Credit Cards
          Avoid credit card mistakes 
              5 common credit card mistakes and how to avoid them
            
              6 common credit mistakes to avoid
            
              Is paying off your credit cards in full bad?
            
              3 risks of relying on balance transfer credit cards
            How to build credit 
              Does having credit cards with a zero balance hurt your credit score?
            
              How to increase your credit score fast
            
              Secured credit cards can help build your credit — here's how
            
              Why is it important to have good credit?
            Types of credit cards 
              Pros and cons of balance transfer credit cards
            
              How do credit cards work, and how are they different from debit cards?
            
              Visa or Mastercard: What's the difference between the credit cards?
            
              When to use a personal loan over a credit card
            
              Zero percent interest credit cards: Everything to know
             More From Credit Cards
            Insurance
          Auto insurance 
              Car loans and the impact on insurance rates: what you need to know
            
              Does your auto insurance cover your delivery driving?
            
              Is it a good idea for drivers to buy GAP insurance?
            
              Need to lower your car insurance? Here’s how to do it
            
              What‌ ‌insurance‌ ‌coverage‌ ‌do‌ ‌I‌ ‌need‌ ‌if‌ ‌I’m‌ ‌financing‌ ‌my‌ ‌car?‌
            Homeowners insurance 
              Don’t cancel your homeowners insurance if you can’t afford it, just find a cheaper plan
            
              What's the difference between homeowners insurance and condo/co-op insurance?
            
              Homeowners insurance should adequately cover these 5 items
            
              Should you update your homeowners insurance if you're working from home?
            Life insurance 
              Does your child need life insurance? What to know
            
              How to determine how much life insurance you need
            
              Is permanent life insurance a good idea for you?
            
              Want cheap life insurance? Consider these strategies
             More From Insurance
            High Yield Savings
          Boost your savings 
              5 ways a high-yield savings account will boost your overall savings
            
              How to get the most out of your savings account
            
              Want to retire early? Open a high-yield savings account
            
              3 easy ways to increase your savings in 2021
            Guide to high-yield savings account 
              Enrolling in a high-yield savings account: A step-by-step guide
            
              How are high-yield savings accounts different from traditional savings accounts?
            
              5 myths about high-yield savings accounts
            
              5 savings account terms you should know
            
              What is a high-yield savings account?
            How to open high-yield savings account 
              How to choose a high-yield savings account
            
              4 factors to consider when choosing a high-yield savings account
            
              Pros and cons of high-yield savings accounts
            
              When should you use a high yield savings account? 5 scenarios
             More From High Yield Savings 
      Advertiser Disclosure
     Sponsored by Credible Operations, Inc., NMLS Number 1681276, whose parent company is majority owned by Fox Corporation and is solely responsible for its services.  Improve Your Personal Finances 
      Learning about personal finance can be challenging. We make learning about money solutions easy. Our financial articles and tools will help you get where you want to go.
      
            Today's 15- and 30-year mortgage rates hold steady | May 17, 2024
           
            Parents less worried about paying for college, some still leaning on student loans, survey finds
           
            17 best personal loans
           
            Here's why you should have more than one credit card
           
            How to choose the right auto insurance coverage for your new car
           
            How to choose a high-yield savings account
          Latest Articles    Prices at the pump dropped four cents this week due to low oil costs  
        By Christopher Murray Contributor
         Mortgage rates dip lower on positive inflation news, hold at near 7%: Freddie Mac  
        By Nora Colomer Contributor
         Today's 15- and 30-year mortgage rates hold steady | May 17, 2024  
        By Angela Mae Contributor
          April inflation eases slightly, but 2% target still out of reach  
        By Nora Colomer Contributor
      
          Personal Loans
           This week's personal loan rates rise for 3- and 5-year terms  
        By Meredith Mangan Contributor
      
          Student Loans
           A large percentage of first-generation students have been impacted by FAFSA challenges  
        By Christopher Murray Contributor
         Today's 15- and 30-year mortgage rates plummet | May 16, 2024  
        By Angela Mae Contributor
      
          Credit Cards
           Texas judge stops Biden Administration rule that caps credit card late fees at $8  
        By Christopher Murray Contributor
      
          Student Loans
           Private student loan interest rates fall for 5-year loans  
        By Meredith Mangan Contributor
       Money Coaches 
          Don’t just get answers. Get credible answers. Watch and Learn from the Experts who made personal finance their career focus.
           Laura Adams    Dan Roccato   Q  Inflation and recession are defining how Americans save for retirement: survey Q Student Loans Help: I’m a disabled senior and I can’t pay my student loans Q  Do I have to put home-sale proceeds into another house?   Mortgages     Should you refinance with your current mortgage lender?  
        By Angela Brown Contributor
         7 common mistakes when refinancing into a low mortgage rate  
        By Ben Luthi Contributor
         How to get the best mortgage refinance rates  
        By Carisa Chappell Contributor
         Should I pay off my mortgage early?  
        By Chonce Maddox Rhea Contributor
         Pros and cons of a cash-out mortgage refinance  
        By Tara Mastroeni Contributor
          15 of the best mortgage refinance companies for 2021 
          Low rates could mean it may be a good time to refinance your mortgage.. Find out which lenders made Credible’s list of top refinance companies.
         
        By Daria Uhlig Contributor
        Mortgages Guides  Should I refinance? How to know if it’s the right time How to remove PMI from your mortgage What is cash-out refinancing and how does it work?   Student Loans     10 of the best student loan refinance companies  
        By Christy Bieber Contributor
         How to pay off student loans early: 12 strategies  
        By Janet Berry-Johnson Contributor
         13 best student loan refinance companies of 2023  
        By Anna Baluch Contributor
         Have $100,000 in student debt? 5 ways to help pay it off  
        By Rebecca Lake Contributor
         How to consolidate student loans  
        By Jacqueline DeMarco Contributor
          Should you refinance your student loans? Best lenders to consider 
          When you refinance student loans, you replace one or more of your existing student loans with a new loan and possibly lower your interest rate.
         
        By Janet Berry-Johnson Contributor
        Student Loans Guides  5 tips for paying off $400K in student loan debt How to take out a student loan: A step-by-step guide Considering refinancing your student loans? What to know   Personal Loans     17 best personal loans  
        By Tara Mastroeni Contributor
         Home improvement loans: What they are and how they work  
        By Stephanie Colestock Contributor
         6 best bad credit loans of September 2022  
        By Andrew Dunn Contributor
         Direct deposit loans and 11 quick-cash alternatives  
        By Janet Berry-Johnson Contributor
          Where to get a $50,000 personal loan 
          If you need to finance an expensive repair or pay for an emergency, a $50,000 personal loan could help. Find out how to apply here.
         
        By Angela Brown Contributor
        Personal Loans Guides  9 of the best debt consolidation companies How to get a personal loan fast 5 smart ways to consolidate credit card debt – and 5 you should never do   Credit Cards      Does having credit cards with a zero balance hurt your credit score?  
        By Brian O'Connell Contributor
         Here's why you should have more than one credit card  
        By Ben Luthi Contributor
         5 credit card benefits you probably have but don’t know about  
        By Tara Mastroeni Contributor
         Get 0% APR credit cards to save money — here's how it works  
        By Tara Mastroeni Contributor
         Here's why you should use a credit card instead of a debit card  
        By Lauren Bowling Contributor
          0% balance transfer offers are disappearing fast — how to get one quick 
          Improve your credit score and eligibility to receive a balance transfer card.
         
        By Ellen Chang Contributor
           Insurance     You should shop for cheaper car insurance every few months — here's why  
        By Aly Yale Contributor
         Home insurance companies will reduce premiums if you have these smart devices  
        By Tara Mastroeni Contributor
         Why you should get online car insurance quotes before signing any deals  
        By Rebecca Lake Contributor
         Don't forget about homeowners insurance when buying a new house  
        By Aly Yale Contributor
          How to choose the right auto insurance coverage for your new car 
          Bought a new car during the pandemic? Don’t forget this critical step.
         
        By Aly Yale Contributor
        Insurance Guides  Do you need homeowners insurance? 6 proven ways to lower your car insurance premiums How to choose the right auto insurance coverage for your new car   High-Yield Savings     Why it's a good idea to put some money in a high-yield savings account  
        By Kathryn Pomroy Contributor
         Open a high-yield savings account to earn more interest on your money  
        By Daniel Bortz Contributor
         Can you lose money in a high yield savings account?  
        By Kathryn Pomroy Contributor
         Here's how much a high yield savings account pays  
        By Tara Mastroeni Contributor
          How to choose a high-yield savings account 
          Want to build those savings fast? Don’t just choose the first bank you come to.
         
        By Aly Yale Contributor
        High-Yield Savings Guides  How are high-yield savings accounts different from traditional savings accounts? How to make money using a high-yield savings account    FoxBusiness.com  FoxNews.com  FoxNation.com Updated Terms of Use New Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX Business Network, LLC All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.



