


What is the parental guidance lock? | iPlayer help




















































          Homepage     Accessibility links   Skip to content   Accessibility Help       BBC Account        Notifications         Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live               More menu    Search BBC        Search BBC              Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food        Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live         Close menu    






























BreadcrumbiPlayer help homeParental controlsWhat is the parental guidance lock?




search



























What is the parental guidance lock?




The parental guidance lock restricts access to programmes which display a guidance warning to ensure younger audiences can’t access inappropriate content. Setting up a parental guidance lock is the best way to control what your children have access to on BBC iPlayer. 
If a programme has been flagged with guidance, it will feature a clear label and a ‘G’ symbol.  

On the mobile/tablet app, the label will appear on a bar at the top of the episode.

The parental guidance lock uses a four-digit PIN to control access to guidance-labelled content. When the parental guidance lock is turned on, you'll be asked to set a PIN. You'll need to enter this PIN to view guidance-labelled content.

What are guidance labels?
Guidance labels let viewers know when content may be unsuitable for younger audiences (e.g. violence, sex, drug use or strong language) or when it may be harmful to some viewers (e.g. containing flashing images). Guidance labelling is usually used for television programmes that were broadcast after the TV watershed (9pm). 
If your child has signed in to their own children's account, they'll see a different version of the BBC iPlayer homepage. This means your child will only see programmes and images that are suitable for them on the BBC iPlayer homepage.

How do I use parental guidance on my device?
Have a look at our parental guidance pages for advice on how to set up, reset, or turn off the parental guidance lock on your device: 

How do I use the parental guidance lock on the website?
How do I use the parental guidance lock on the mobile/tablet app?
How do I use the parental guidance lock on the TV app?




















Related FAQs



How do I use the parental guidance lock on the website?


How do I use the parental guidance lock on the mobile/tablet app?


How do I use the parental guidance lock on the TV app?





















Need more help?





Contact us












Browse our help categories







Getting Started








About BBC iPlayer and our policies






Accessibility






Getting started with BBC iPlayer






Need more help?






Parental controls






Signing in






Supported devices












Watching iPlayer








Downloading






Features






Programme availability






Recent changes to iPlayer






Watching outside the UK












Resolving Issues








Mobile and tablet issues






Playback issues






Smart TV and games console issues






Computer issues












Children's Experience








About the Children's Experience

















     Explore the BBC      Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live              Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us   Copyright © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.   Read about our approach to external linking.                  









