


Simple molecule prevents mole rats from getting cancer | Nature























































































Skip to main content


Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.






Advertisement
























View all journals




Search



Log in











Explore content




About the journal




Publish with us






Sign up for alerts




RSS feed










nature



news




article









                        Simple molecule prevents mole rats from getting cancer
                    


Download PDF









News
Published: 19 June 2013

Simple molecule prevents mole rats from getting cancer
Ewen Callaway 

Nature

                         (2013)Cite this article




304 Altmetric


Metrics details





Subjects

CancerCell biologyDiseases




Sugar matrix surrounding cells traps would-be tumours in long-lived mammal.


You have full access to this article via your institution.


Download PDF










Download PDF







A hardy intercellular matrix may be the key to the naked mole rat's ability to skirt cancer.
            Credit: Brandon Vick/University of RochesterThe same molecules that endow naked mole rats with springy, wrinkled skin also seem to prevent the homely rodents from contracting cancer. Research published on Nature's website today identifies a sugary cellular secretion that stops the spread of would-be tumours1.Naked mole rats (Heterocephalus glaber), which are more closely related to porcupines than rats, are freaks of nature. The short-sighted creatures spend their lives in subterranean colonies in the service of a single breeding queen — H. glaber is one of only two 'eusocial' mammals ever discovered. The rodent doesn’t feel the sting of acids or the burn of chilli peppers, and seems to be the only mammal that is unable to regulate its body temperature.However, the animal's longevity and impunity to cancer are the reason why biologist Andrei Seluanov keeps around 80 naked mole rats in a special facility near his lab at the University of Rochester in New York state. The rodents have been known to live for up to 32 years, and scientists have never seen one with cancer. Mice, by comparison, rarely live past the age of four and do often die of cancer.
Nature Podcast
            Your browser does not support the audio element.
        Ewen Callaway spoke to Andrei Seluanov about his work on naked mole rats' resistance to cancer.
In 2009, Seluanov’s team reported that the naked mole rat's fibroblasts (a cell type found in connective tissue) are sensitive to the presence of other cells, and in Petri dishes they grow less crowded than mouse fibroblasts do2. To the annoyance of his lab workers, the broth they used to nurture the cells often turned so viscous that it clogged the drains.“Our lab technician was unhappy because she needed to disassemble the system and clean all this gooey stuff,” Seluanov recalls. “I told my graduate student that we have to find out what the gooey substance is — it should be related to their cancer resistance. Of course, at that time it was just a wild guess.”
Sticky situation
The team soon discovered that the plumbing problem was the result of a sugar called hyaluronic acid (HA). Fibroblasts ooze HA and, along with collagen and other chemicals, it forms the extracellular matrix that gives tissues their shape and makes skin elastic. Naked mole rats, Seluanov’s team discovered, produce large amounts of long chains of HA.The researchers suspected that the long HA molecules formed a tight cage around cells, preventing tumour cells from replicating unchecked and essentially nipping 'pre-cancers' in the bud. In tissue-culture experiments, the cells of naked mole rats could be made cancerous by blocking the gene that encodes HA or by increasing levels of a protein that recycles the sugar. Those cells, when implanted under the skin of mice, formed tumours easily.Vadim Gladyshev, a molecular biologist at Harvard Medical School in Boston, Massachusetts, says that the paper makes a strong case that HA protects naked mole rats against cancer, but adds that other mechanisms are likely to play a part. For instance, when he and his colleagues sequenced the animal’s genome, they identified numerous genes linked to cancer that differ between naked mole rats and other vertebrates3.Rochelle Buffenstein, a gerontologist at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio who, with 2,500 animals, is keeper of the world’s largest naked-mole-rat colony, says that it's not clear how HA protects against cancer, but that working out naked mole rat anti-cancer mechanisms will provide insight that could be used against human cancers.But first, Seluanov’s team plans to translate its work into preventing cancer in lab mice. The researchers hope to use genetic engineering to endow mice with HA molecules like those of naked mole rats. Drugs that lead to the production of long HA molecules may one day prove beneficial in preventing human cancers, he says.


ReferencesTian, X. et al. Nature http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature12234 (2013).Seluanov, A. et al. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 106, 19352-19357 (2009).Article 
    CAS 
    ADS 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Kim, E. B. et al. Nature 479, 223-227 (2011).Article 
    CAS 
    ADS 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Download referencesAuthorsEwen CallawayView author publicationsYou can also search for this author in
                        PubMed Google ScholarRelated linksRelated linksRelated links in Nature Research
Blind mole rats may hold key to cancer 2012-Nov-05

Naked mole-rats don't feel the burn 2008-Jan-28

Old mole-rat boosts ageing research 2002-Nov-18
Related external linksRights and permissionsReprints and permissionsAbout this articleCite this articleCallaway, E. Simple molecule prevents mole rats from getting cancer.
                    Nature  (2013). https://doi.org/10.1038/nature.2013.13236Download citationPublished: 19 June 2013DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/nature.2013.13236Share this articleAnyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content:Get shareable linkSorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.Copy to clipboard
                            Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative
                        








You have full access to this article via your institution.


Download PDF










Download PDF












Advertisement


















Explore content



                                    Research articles
                                



                                    News
                                



                                    Opinion
                                



                                    Research Analysis
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Books & Culture
                                



                                    Podcasts
                                



                                    Videos
                                



                                    Current issue
                                



                                    Browse issues
                                



                                    Collections
                                



                                    Subjects
                                




Follow us on Facebook
                            


Follow us on Twitter
                            


Sign up for alerts




RSS feed







About the journal



                                    Journal Staff
                                



                                    About the Editors
                                



                                    Journal Information
                                



                                    Our publishing models
                                



                                    Editorial Values Statement
                                



                                    Journal Metrics
                                



                                    Awards
                                



                                    Contact
                                



                                    Editorial policies
                                



                                    History of Nature
                                



                                    Send a news tip
                                






Publish with us



                                    For Authors
                                



                                    For Referees
                                



                                    Language editing services
                                


Submit manuscript







Search

Search articles by subject, keyword or author






Show results from

All journals
This journal



Search






                Advanced search
            

Quick links

Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies










                    Nature (Nature)
                

ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
    

ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
    






nature.com sitemap



About Nature Portfolio

About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us



Discover content

Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index



Publishing policies

Nature portfolio policies
Open access



Author & Researcher services

Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions



Libraries & institutions

Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library



Advertising & partnerships

Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits

Branded
                        content



Professional development

Nature Careers
Nature 
                        Conferences



Regional websites

Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Italy
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East






Privacy
                Policy
Use
                of cookies

Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
                

Legal
                notice
Accessibility
                statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights







© 2024 Springer Nature Limited











Close banner






Close






Sign up for the Nature Briefing: Cancer newsletter — what matters in cancer research, free to your inbox weekly.









Email address



Sign up



I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.










Close banner






Close



Get what matters in cancer research, free to your inbox weekly.
Sign up for Nature Briefing: Cancer
            









