



  






















WWF and Knorr launch The Future 50 Foods | WWF















      Skip to main content
    







                    search
                










Main navigation





Close






                  Learn
              





Animals


Landscapes


Climate change


Food systems


Our podcast series




Fascinating facts


Schools & teachers


Quizzes


Our reports


Forest Pathways report




Rewilding








                  Act
              





Petition: Stop the destruction of nature


24 things you can do in 2024


Download the My Footprint app


Calculate your footprint


Fundraise for us




Eat more sustainably


What your business can do


Inspiring the next generation


Campaign for nature








                  Support
              





Adopt an animal


Donate


Become a member


Visit our shop


Play our 'Weekly Lottery'




Join the 'WWF Guardians'


Philanthropy


Leave a gift in your will


Give in memory


Pay in your fundraising




Challenge events


Save UK nature


Explore our 'Go Wild' junior membership








                  About
              





About WWF-UK


Who we work with


WWF Scotland


WWF Cymru


How we are governed




Success stories


Jobs


Contact us


FAQs















Search








Close





Sign up to get the latest WWF news delivered straight to your inbox




                        Close
                    




                menu
            


Fundraising Header



    Adopt
  

    Donate
  

    Membership
  


























WWF and Knorr launch The Future 50 Foods

WWF has partnered with Knorr, one of the world’s largest food brands, to help to tackle the negative impact of our food system on the environment.




         Download the report
     



         Join the fight
     






© WWF-UK







Together, we’ve launched The Future 50 Foods report, a collection of diverse plant-based foods from around the world that can boost the nutritional value of our meals whilst reducing the environmental impact of our food supply.
The launch of the report follows the release of WWF’s Living Planet Report, which highlights the devastating impact of the global food system. As the biggest driver of nature loss on the planet, it is changing our climate, devastating wildlife and is the leading cause of deforestation.
That's why we’re working with Knorr to inspire chefs, retailers and shoppers to adopt a greater variety of plant-based ingredients.
Visit Knorr’s website for Future 50 recipes and tips




The report combines some familiar ingredients, such as lentils, wild rice and kale, with less well-known foods like fonio, pumpkin flowers and cactus. Many of these have higher yields than the crops we currently rely on and several are tolerant of challenging weather and environmental conditions, meaning they could not only reduce the land required for crops, but also prove invaluable in the face of growing climate uncertainty.
Greater diversity in our diets is essential as the lack of variety in agriculture is both bad for nature and a threat to food security. Currently 75 percent of the world’s food comes from just 12 plant and five animal species. It’s essential that we change our eating habits to ensure we protect our planet whilst feeding the growing global population.
Download the report 




We also recommend:



                            Who we work with: our corporate partnerships
                        











Bringing our world back to life



Join the race to save our world
Sign up to be kept informed about our conservation work and how you can help such as fundraising, campaigning and events. You can unsubscribe at any time.
Sign up



About WWF


UK Headquarters


Press contacts


Contact us


FAQs


Jobs


DE&I Strategy






Legal


Terms & Conditions


About Cookies


Privacy and Data Protection


Annual Report and Financial Statements


Gender Pay Gap report


Modern Slavery Statement


Safeguarding policy






Follow us














                                        WWF-UK is a registered charity in England and Wales 1081247 and in Scotland SC039593 and a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales 4016725.




Website monitored by UptimeRobot


























