


How can I report a technical fault on the BBC website? | Contact the BBC





















































          Homepage     Accessibility links   Skip to content   Accessibility Help       BBC Account        Notifications         Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live               More menu    Search BBC        Search BBC              Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food        Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live         Close menu    









Contact the BBC










Menu
















Contact Home


Help and FAQs


Comments


Complaints


About the BBC










search
































How can I report a technical fault on the BBC website?





Need help with your BBC account? Visit the Using the BBC website.
Need help with BBC iPlayer? Visit the BBC iPlayer Help Site.
Need help with BBC Sounds? Visit the BBC Sounds Help Site.
Need Help with your TV or Radio reception or using Red Button? Visit the Reception Advice Help Site
Spotted an error or fault on the BBC News website? Get in touch via the BBC News technical error report form. 

For all other BBC websites not listed above, use our fault report form to report a technical fault or other error. You will need to provide the URL (website address) of the page you were visiting when you found the fault or mistake.
When you supply personal details we and our service providers will use the information you give us to respond to your query or comments, to improve our services and for statistical analysis. Your information will not be passed on to any third party.
Our global information security team is working hard to protect the BBC's information assets, services and products and the confidentiality of audience information. But we're always willing to accept more help and so if you believe you've found a vulnerability on our website, please share it with us using our fault report form. We will endeavour to respond to your notification as quickly as possible and would like the opportunity to say thank you - so we ask that you please do not share your findings with others until we have had a chance to investigate and report back to you.
For full details of what we do with the personal information we collect about you, please see our Privacy and Cookies Policy. 












Related FAQs



How can I report technical, factual and grammatical errors on the BBC News website?


How can I make a complaint?


Can you help me with problems on my BBC account?


































Can't find what you're looking for?





Get more help







     Explore the BBC      Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live              Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us   Copyright © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.   Read about our approach to external linking.                  










