
















Silk Ties: The Links Between Ancient Rome & China | History Today































































      Skip to main content
    

















User menu logged out


Subscribe


Sign in





SubscriptionOffers
Give a Gift






Enter your keywords








Subscribe


Search


Toggle navigation








Main menu


Home


The Magazine


Subscribe


Buy the Current Issue


The Archive


Reviews


Sign in













Mini header menu


Search


Magazine


Latest


Subscribe







Subscribe





















 





Silk Ties: The Links Between Ancient Rome & China





China and Rome were the two great economic superpowers of the Ancient World. Yet their empires were separated by thousands of miles of inhospitable terrain, dramatically reducing the opportunities for direct communication. Raoul McLaughlin investigates.






Raoul McLaughlin
          | Published in
          History Today
Volume 57 Issue 11 November 2007






 
The empires of Han China (206 BC–AD 220) and Rome together ruled over half the world’s ancient population. Their empires had sophisticated governments, commanded formidable armies and controlled vast territories. Each had the force to dominate smaller states on its frontiers and become a superpower of the ancient world. As the civilizations of Rome and China possessed unique resources and developed distinctive expertise, successful communication between the two empires would have dramatically changed the direction of world history.
Yet vast distances, inhospitable landscapes and the Parthian empire separated them and many smaller kingdoms discouraged contact for political and mercantile reasons. It was therefore ‘foreign’ peoples who trafficked exotic goods between the two, conducting these trade exchanges across long and arduous routes over the great expanse of inner Asia. Goods travelled between Rome and China from the late first century BC, but the empires remained only vaguely aware of each other’s existence.





To continue reading this article you will need to purchase access to the online archive.
Buy Online Access  Buy Print & Archive Subscription
If you have already purchased access, or are a print & archive subscriber, please ensure you are logged in.
Please email digital@historytoday.com if you have any problems.

 








AncientRoman EmpireChinaEconomic History





Popular articles









The Death of a Mnemonist









How the CCP is Closing China












Recently published












How the CCP is Closing China













Deeds Not Words: Slashing the Rokeby Venus













‘Churchill’s American Network’ and ‘Mirrors of Greatness’ review










Most read




The Death of a Mnemonist
How the CCP is Closing China
Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin and the Making of Stars
Deeds Not Words: Slashing the Rokeby Venus
Herzl’s Troubled Dream: The Origins of Zionism


















X
Get Miscellanies, our free weekly long read, in your inbox every week















Footer menu


About


Masthead


Contact


Jobs


Advertising


RSS feeds


Submit an Article


Back Issues


Binders


Cookie policy


Awards


Students


Privacy policy


Terms of Use


Twitter


Instagram




© Copyright 2024 History Today Ltd. Company no. 1556332.







































