


Comments | Contact the BBC




















































          Homepage     Accessibility links   Skip to content   Accessibility Help       BBC Account        Notifications         Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live               More menu    Search BBC        Search BBC              Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food        Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live         Close menu    









Contact the BBC










Menu
















Contact Home


Help and FAQs


Comments


Complaints


About the BBC























Comments






We appreciate all comments, appreciative or otherwise, as it’s helpful to know what you think. We will circulate your comment the next morning for all staff to see.
If you would like to understand how we collect and use personal data, please refer to our privacy notice.
There are three ways to contact us:











How you can send us a comment






Online





Submit a comment





Phone



Record your comments 24 hours a day:
03700 100 222*
03700 100 212* (textphone)
(*charged as geographic numbers)







Post



Send your letter to:
BBC Comments
PO Box 1922
Darlington
DL3 0UR














What happens to your comments
We read all comments in full along with all the other reaction we receive. If you call, we’ll summarise your points with you and then note them down. 
We then collate and classify all the reaction we’ve had overnight so we can circulate it the next morning to producers and managers to read and consider. In order to help us do this, we ask you to complete some details when you fill in our webform.
We can’t reply to or acknowledge all comments but do read them all. All the comments, appreciations and any other reaction we receive are considered alongside audience research. They inform our discussions about existing or new programmes, coverage and services. 












     Explore the BBC      Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live              Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us   Copyright © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.   Read about our approach to external linking.                  










