


Nature

















































Skip to main content


Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.





Advertisement
























View all journals




Search



Log in











Explore content




About the journal




Publish with us




Subscribe






Sign up for alerts




RSS feed




















Is the Internet bad for you? Huge study reveals surprise effect on well-being

A survey of more than 2.4 million people finds that being online can have a positive effect on welfare






Featured Content














Dazzling auroras are just a warm-up as more solar storms are likely, scientists say


Nature talks to physicists about what to expect in the next months and beyond as the Sun hits its 'maximum'.


Alexandra Witze




News Explainer13 May 2024
















Cubic millimetre of brain mapped in spectacular detail


Google scientists have modelled a fragment of the human brain at nanoscale resolution, revealing cells with previously undiscovered features. 


Carissa Wong




News09 May 2024
















Boron catalysis in a designer enzyme


A completely genetically encoded boronic-acid-containing designer enzyme was created and characterized using X-ray crystallography, high-resolution mass spectrometry and 11B NMR spectroscopy, allowing chemistry that is unknown in nature and currently not possible with small-molecule catalysts.


Lars LongwitzReuben B. Leveson-GowerGerard Roelfes




Article08 May 2024
















Daily briefing: A millimetre of brain in spectacular detail


Google scientists have modelled a tiny fragment of the human brain at nanoscale resolution. Plus, a bold proposal to limit extreme wealth.


Katrina Krämer




Nature Briefing10 May 2024















Contents


Subscribe



Current Issue09 May 2024






Advertisement













                            News & Comment
                            
















World’s brightest X-rays: China first in Asia to build next-generation synchrotron


The US$665-million High Energy Photon Source (HEPS) outside Beijing puts China among only a handful of countries that have fourth-generation synchrotron light sources.




Gemma Conroy


News13 May 2024


















Brain-reading device is best yet at decoding ‘internal speech’






Miryam Naddaf


News13 May 2024
















Human embryos embrace asymmetry to form the body






Sara Reardon


News13 May 2024
















Is the Internet bad for you? Huge study reveals surprise effect on well-being






Carissa Wong


News12 May 2024
















Cubic millimetre of brain mapped in spectacular detail






Carissa Wong


News09 May 2024
















US TikTok ban: how the looming restriction is affecting scientists on the app






Ariana Remmel


News09 May 2024
















How I fled bombed Aleppo to continue my career in science






Benjamin Plackett


Career Feature08 May 2024





















                            Latest Reviews & Analysis
                            


















A jawless-fish genome untangles the history of vertebrate genome multiplications


Clarifying how genome duplication and triplication events shaped early vertebrate genomes has presented a challenge in evolutionary biology. The genome of the jawless hagfish provides a missing piece of this puzzle.




Research Briefing10 May 2024


















‘Ghost roads’ could be the biggest direct threat to tropical forests


By using volunteers to map roads in forests across Borneo, Sumatra and New Guinea, an innovative study shows that existing maps of the Asia-Pacific region are rife with errors. It also reveals that unmapped roads are extremely common — up to seven times more abundant than mapped ones. Such ‘ghost roads’ are promoting illegal logging, mining, wildlife poaching and deforestation in some of the world’s biologically richest ecosystems.






Research Briefing08 May 2024
















Vibration isolation could boost performance of near-infrared organic LEDs


The development of high-performance organic LEDs and other devices that emit near-infrared light has been hindered by seemingly fundamental features of the light-emitting molecules. A potential solution has been identified.






Margherita Maiuri


News & Views08 May 2024
















Vaccine-enhancing plant extract could be mass produced in yeast


The Chilean soapbark tree is the source of QS-21 — a valuable but hard-to-obtain vaccine additive. Yeast strains engineered to express all components of the QS-21 biosynthetic pathway provide an alternative route to this therapeutic.






Ryan Nett


News & Views08 May 2024
















Toad psychedelic points to biological target for antidepressants


A hallucinogenic compound secreted by toads has served as a springboard for research into the therapeutic benefits of psychedelics. The findings suggest that these compounds exert antidepressant effects in part by binding an under-appreciated target in the brain.






Research Briefing08 May 2024














Quantum tunnelling of electrons brings ultrafast optical microscopy to the atomic scale






Research Briefing08 May 2024










Did atmospheric weathering help Earth’s earliest continents to survive?






Claire E. Bucholz


News & Views08 May 2024










The refinery of the future






Eelco T. C. VogtBert M. Weckhuysen


Perspective08 May 2024










The dream of electronic newspapers becomes a reality — in 1974






News & Views07 May 2024















Nature is a Transformative Journal; authors can publish using the traditional publishing route OR via immediate gold Open Access.
Our Open Access option complies with funder and institutional requirements.








                            Latest Research articles
                            










Plasmid targeting and destruction by the DdmDE bacterial defence system


Jack P. K. BravoDelisa A. RamosDavid W. Taylor




Article13 May 2024










Rhizobia–diatom symbiosis fixes missing nitrogen in the ocean


Bernhard TschitschkoMertcan EstiMarcel M. M. Kuypers




Article09 May 2024










Structural mechanism of angiogenin activation by the ribosome


Anna B. LovelandCha San KohAndrei A. Korostelev




Article08 May 2024










A secondary atmosphere on the rocky Exoplanet 55 Cancri e


Renyu HuAaron Bello-ArufeBrice-Olivier Demory




Article08 May 2024










Accurate structure prediction of biomolecular interactions with AlphaFold 3


Josh AbramsonJonas AdlerJohn M. Jumper




Article08 May 2024












                        Collections
                        














Sex and gender in science


                                            Fraught societal debates, particularly surrounding gender identity, are raising new questions about how to best take account of sex and gender in research, both in human health and elsewhere – even as scientists are increasingly recognizing that they must move beyond paradigms based on extrapolating findings from men or male animals. 
                                        


Collection

01 May 2024














Advertisement








Trending - Altmetric







                                        A secondary atmosphere on the rocky Exoplanet 55 Cancri e
                                    








                                        Accurate structure prediction of biomolecular interactions with AlphaFold 3
                                    








                                        Cubic millimetre of brain mapped in spectacular detail
                                    








                                        Argentina’s pioneering nuclear research threatened by huge budget cuts
                                    


















                                Science jobs
                                






Recruitment of Principal Investigators by the School of Life Sciences, Peking University

The School of Life Sciences at Peking University is actively seeking talents, with an emphasis on bioinformatics/computational biology/AI/RNA biology.
Beijing (CN)
School of Life Sciences, Peking University








2024 Recruitment notice Shenzhen Institute of Synthetic Biology: Shenzhen, China

The wide-ranging expertise drawing from technical, engineering or science professions...
Shenzhen,China
Shenzhen Institute of Synthetic Biology








Head of Operational Excellence

In this key position, you’ll be responsible for ensuring efficiency and quality in journal workflows through continuous improvement and innovation.
United States (US) - Remote
American Physical Society








Rowland Fellowship

The Rowland Institute at Harvard seeks outstanding early-career experimentalists in all fields of science and engineering.
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Rowland Institute at Harvard








Postdoctoral Fellowship: Chemical and Cell Biology

The 2-year fellowship within a project that will combine biochemical, cell biological and chemical genetic approaches to elucidate migrasome biology
Umeå, Sweden
Umeå University



















Advertisement










Close banner






Close






Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.









Email address



Sign up



I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.










Close banner






Close



Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
            





Explore content



                                    Research articles
                                



                                    News
                                



                                    Opinion
                                



                                    Research Analysis
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Books & Culture
                                



                                    Podcasts
                                



                                    Videos
                                



                                    Current issue
                                



                                    Browse issues
                                



                                    Collections
                                



                                    Subjects
                                




Follow us on Facebook
                            


Follow us on Twitter
                            



Subscribe



Sign up for alerts




RSS feed







About the journal



                                    Journal Staff
                                



                                    About the Editors
                                



                                    Journal Information
                                



                                    Our publishing models
                                



                                    Editorial Values Statement
                                



                                    Journal Metrics
                                



                                    Awards
                                



                                    Contact
                                



                                    Editorial policies
                                



                                    History of Nature
                                



                                    Send a news tip
                                






Publish with us



                                    For Authors
                                



                                    For Referees
                                



                                    Language editing services
                                


Submit manuscript







Search

Search articles by subject, keyword or author






Show results from

All journals
This journal



Search






                Advanced search
            

Quick links

Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies








        Top headline image:  Ute Grabowsky/Photothek via Getty
    






        Issue cover: Cover image: Jasiek Krzysztofiak/Nature
    


                    Nature (Nature)
                

ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
    

ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
    






nature.com sitemap



About Nature Portfolio

About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us



Discover content

Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index



Publishing policies

Nature portfolio policies
Open access



Author & Researcher services

Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions



Libraries & institutions

Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library



Advertising & partnerships

Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits

Branded
                        content



Professional development

Nature Careers
Nature 
                        Conferences



Regional websites

Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Italy
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East






Privacy
                Policy
Use
                of cookies

Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
                

Legal
                notice
Accessibility
                statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights







© 2024 Springer Nature Limited












