
















Brest-Litovsk | History Today































































      Skip to main content
    

















User menu logged out


Subscribe


Sign in





SubscriptionOffers
Give a Gift






Enter your keywords








Subscribe


Search


Toggle navigation








Main menu


Home


The Magazine


Subscribe


Buy the Current Issue


The Archive


Reviews


Sign in













Mini header menu


Search


Magazine


Latest


Subscribe







Subscribe





















 





Brest-Litovsk





Sydney D. Bailey offers up a study in Soviet diplomacy.






Sydney Bailey
          | Published in
          History Today






 
One December evening in 1917, a Curious banquet was held in a Polish town. The host was Field Marshal His Royal Highness Prince Leopold of Bavaria. Included among the guests were two of his friends, the German and Austrian Foreign Ministers, Baron von Ktihlmann and Count Czernin. Other distinguished men were present: Princes and Counts, Generals and Admirals, Ministers and Judges.
The meal was served with accustomed splendour—to the embarrassment of some of the foreign guests, who were unfamiliar with the proper etiquette. One of these guests was an illiterate peasant; another was a political assassin only recently released from jail; among others were a soldier and a sailor from the ranks, a factory worker, a journalist, and two professional revolutionaries. The Bolsheviks were for the first time engaged in diplomatic negotiations.
* * *





To continue reading this article you will need to purchase access to the online archive.
Buy Online Access  Buy Print & Archive Subscription
If you have already purchased access, or are a print & archive subscriber, please ensure you are logged in.
Please email digital@historytoday.com if you have any problems.

 








First World WarSoviet UnionGermanyRussiaPoliticalMilitary





Popular articles









The Death of a Mnemonist









How the CCP is Closing China












Recently published












How the CCP is Closing China













Deeds Not Words: Slashing the Rokeby Venus













‘Churchill’s American Network’ and ‘Mirrors of Greatness’ review










Most read




The Death of a Mnemonist
How the CCP is Closing China
Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin and the Making of Stars
Deeds Not Words: Slashing the Rokeby Venus
Herzl’s Troubled Dream: The Origins of Zionism


















X
Get Miscellanies, our free weekly long read, in your inbox every week















Footer menu


About


Masthead


Contact


Jobs


Advertising


RSS feeds


Submit an Article


Back Issues


Binders


Cookie policy


Awards


Students


Privacy policy


Terms of Use


Twitter


Instagram




© Copyright 2024 History Today Ltd. Company no. 1556332.







































