















    
        About this Collection  | 
    
        Born in Slavery: Slave Narratives from the Federal Writers' Project, 1936-1938  | 
    
        Digital Collections  | 
    
        Library of Congress 
    
    











































Top of page



Skip to main content







Library of Congress





Search



Everything
Audio Recordings
Books/Printed Material
Films, Videos
Legislation
Manuscripts/Mixed Material
Maps
Notated Music
Newspapers
Periodicals
Personal Narratives
Photos, Prints, Drawings
Software, E-Resources
Web Archives
Web Pages
3D Objects
This Collection








Search


Search toggle





menu 



Discover
Services
Visit
Education
Connect
Shop external link
Donate
About


Ask a Librarian
Help
Contact


Search Online Catalog
Copyright.gov
Congress.gov












Library of Congress
Digital Collections
Born in Slavery: Slave Narratives from the Federal Writers' Project, 1936 to 1938
About this Collection






 Share

























Collection
Born in Slavery: Slave Narratives from the Federal Writers' Project, 1936 to 1938




Menu 



About this Collection


Collection Items


Articles and Essays










Featured Content







                        Memorandum, Director Henry G. Alsberg to State Directors of the ...
                    






                        Memorandum, Director Henry G. Alsberg to State Directors of the ...
                    






                        Photograph, receipt for the sale of Jane, a Negro woman, age 18,...
                    






                        Photograph, bell rack, a contraption used by an Alabama ...
                    






                        Photograph, William Colbert, age 93, formerly a slave in ...
                    






                        Typescript narrative, William Colbert recalls whippings and ...
                    






                        Photograph, former slave Lucindy Lawrence Jurdon, age 79, with ...
                    






                        Photograph, Nathan Beauchamp, age about 92, a former Alabama ...
                    






                        Photograph, Tempie Herndon Durham, age 103, formerly a slave in ...
                    






                        Typescript narrative, Tempie Herndon Durham recounts her wedding...
                    






                        Typescript narrative, Perry Lewis, formerly a slave in Maryland,...
                    






                        Photograph, Sarah Gudger, age 121, formerly a slave in North ...
                    






                        Photograph, Felix Haywood, age 92, formerly a slave in Texas, ...
                    






                        Typescript narrative, Felix Haywood recalls the end of the Civil...
                    






                        Photograph, attendants at Old Slave Day, Southern Pines, North ...
                    















Listen to this page




About this Collection


Born in Slavery: Slave Narratives from the Federal Writers' Project,  1936-1938 contains more than 2,300 first-person accounts of slavery and 500  black-and-white photographs of former slaves.  These narratives were collected in the 1930s as part of the Federal  Writers' Project (FWP) of the Works Progress Administration, later renamed Work  Projects Administration (WPA).  At the  conclusion of the Slave Narrative project, a set of edited transcripts was assembled  and microfilmed in 1941 as the seventeen-volume Slave Narratives: A Folk History of Slavery in the United States from Interviews with Former Slaves. In 2000-2001, with major support from the Citigroup Foundation, the Library digitized the narratives  from the microfilm edition and scanned from the originals 500 photographs,  including more than 200 that had never been microfilmed or made publicly  available.  This online collection is a joint  presentation of the Manuscript and Prints and Photographs divisions of the Library of Congress. 
The Volumes
The published volumes containing edited slave narratives are  arranged alphabetically by the state in which the interviews took place and  thereunder by the surname of the informant.   Administrative files for the project are bound at the beginning of Volume 1.  These files detail the instructions and other  information supplied to field workers as well as subjects of concern to state  directors of the Federal Writers' Project.
Vol. 1

 Administrative  Files
 Alabama,  Aarons-Young

Vol. 2, Arkansas

Part 1, Abbott-Byrd
Part 2, Cannon-Evans 
Part 3, Gadson-Isom
Part 4, Jackson-Lynch 
Part 5, McClendon-Prayer
Part 6, Quinn-Tuttle
Part 7, Vaden-Young 

Vol. 3, Florida,  Anderson-Wilson (with combined interviews of others) 
Vol. 4, Georgia

Part 1, Adams-Furr
Part 2, Garey-Jones
Part 3, Kendricks-Styles
Part 4, Telfair-Young (with  combined interviews of others) 

Vol. 5, Indiana,  Arnold-Woodson
Vol. 6, Kansas,  Holbert-Williams 
Vol. 7, Kentucky, Bogie-Woods (with combined interviews of others) 
Vol. 8, Maryland,  Brooks-Williams
Vol. 9, Mississippi,  Allen-Young
Vol. 10, Missouri, Abbot-Younger
Vol. 11, North Carolina

Part 1, Adams-Hunter 
Part 2, Jackson-Yellerday

Vol. 12, Ohio, Anderson-Williams
Vol. 13, Oklahoma, Adams-Young 
Vol. 14, South Carolina 

Part 1, Abrams-Durant
Part 2, Eddington-Hunter 
Part 3, Jackson-Quattlebaum
Part 4, Raines-Young

Vol. 15, Tennessee, Batson-Young 
Vol. 16, Texas

Part 1, Adams-Duhon
Part 2, Easter-King
Part 3, Lewis-Ryles
Part 4, Sanco-Young 

Vol. 17, Virginia, Berry-Wilson 
Historical Overview 
In the Depression years between 1936 and 1938, the WPA Federal Writers' Project    (FWP) sent out-of-work writers in seventeen states to interview ordinary people    in order to write down their life stories. Initially, only four states involved    in the project (Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and Virginia) focused on collecting    the stories of people who had once been held in slavery. John A. Lomax, the    National Advisor on Folklore and Folkways for the FWP (and the curator of the    Archive of American Folk Song at the Library of Congress), was extremely interested    in the ex-slave material he received from these states. In 1937 he directed    the remaining states involved in the project to carry out interviews with former    slaves as well. Federal field workers were given instructions on what kinds    of questions to ask their informants and how to capture their dialects, the  result of which may sometimes be offensive to today's readers (see A Note on the Language of  the Narratives).  The field workers    often visited the people they interviewed twice in order to gather as many recollections    as possible. Sometimes they took photographs of informants and their houses.    The interviewers then turned the narratives over to their state's FWP director for    editing and eventual transfer to Washington, D.C. The administrative files accompanying the narratives detail the information supplied to field  workers as well as subjects of concern to state directors of the FWP.  For more information about the interviewers, the people interviewed, and  the processes of collection and compilation, see Norman Yetman's essay which accompanies this online collection.
In 1939, the FWP lost its funding, and the states were ordered to send whatever    manuscripts they had collected to Washington. Once most of the materials had arrived at the Library of Congress, Benjamin A. Botkin, the folklore editor    of the FWP who later became head of the Archive of Folk Culture at the Library of Congress, undertook the remaining editing and indexing of the narratives and selected the photographs for inclusion. As noted above, he organized the    narratives by state, and then alphabetically by name of informant within each state, collecting them in 1941 into seventeen bound volumes in thirty-three parts under the title Slave Narratives: A Folk History of Slavery in the    United States from Interviews with Former Slaves (Washington,  D.C., 1941).    The multivolume set and other project files, including some earlier unbound  annotated versions of the narratives, are housed in the  Manuscript Division and described in the  finding aid for the records of the WPA.
Other records relating  to the ex-slave project are among the FWP files at the National  Archives and Records Administration (Record Group 69.5.5) and are  described in the Guide to Federal Records in the National Archives of the United States, Vol. I. (Washington, D.C.: National Archives and Records Administration, 1995).    Volumes 2-17 of The American Slave: A Composite Autobiography, edited by George P. Rawick and others (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1972-79), present these narratives with a slightly different organization; the later    volumes of Rawick's series also include ex-slave interviews housed in other archives. Anthologies containing selections from the Library of Congress collection include the Federal Writers' Project's Lay My Burden Down: A Folk History    of Slavery, edited by B. A. Botkin (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1945) and Voices from Slavery (New York:    Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1970), edited by Norman R. Yetman, author of  An Introduction to the WPA Slave Narratives under the Articles and Essays tab. For additional works using these narratives as well as other slave narratives, please see the list of Related Resources.











                    About this Collection
                


                    Related Resources
                


                    Rights and Access
                





Expert Resources



                Finding Aid - United States Work Projects Administration Records
                
            



                Manuscript Reading Room
                
            



                Prints & Photographs Reading Room
                
            



                Prints & Photographs Online Catalog
                
            



                Ask a Prints & Photographs Librarian
                
            



                Blog: Picture This
                
            



                Collections with Photos
                
            



                Collections with Manuscripts
                
            














 Back to top



Follow Us









































Take our survey External





Accessibility
Legal
Inspector General
External Link Disclaimer
USA.gov
Careers
Contact
Media
Donate
Shop





















