



 Google's 'Quiet Hiring' Method Is Bad News for 'Quiet Quitters' | Entrepreneur






































































Skip to content




Menu



Close Menu

 
 

Entrepreneur Landing Page






















      Sign In
          





      Subscribe
          




Search











Entrepreneur Landing Page





















Search





Close Menu

 






      Subscribe to Entrepreneur
          





            Starting a Business
          



            Growing a Business
          



            Leadership
          



            Small Business Guide
          



            Business News
          



            Science & Technology
          



            Money & Finance
          



            Living
          



            Franchise
          










 
              For Subscribers
            


















 
              Write for Entrepreneur
            




















 
              Bookstore
            









 
              Ask an Expert
            










 
              Podcasts
            













 
              Video
            










 
              Entrepreneur TV
            











 
              Webinars
            







              Entrepreneur Store
            
















 
              Spotlight
            















              Magazine Subscription
            










 
            Edition
          


Plus

 
Minus

 


United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
Europe
South Africa






Facebook

 


X

 


LinkedIn

 


YouTube





 


Instagram

















 


TikTok

 


Snapchat

 


RSS


 

Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC










Home

 Home






Breadcrumb Arrow

 
            Living
          





Breadcrumb Arrow

 
            Resumes & Interviewing
          
















📺 Stream EntrepreneurTV for Free 📺







  Google's 'Quiet Hiring' Method Is Excellent for Employers, But Dangerous for Employees Who 'Quiet Quit'
  
    A little-known but extremely effective strategy hurts employees who don't go the extra mile.
  





                  By          
            Amanda Breen
          

            Sep 9, 2022
          




          Share        


Copy


 





















VioletaStoimenova | Getty Images


By now, you've heard about "quiet quitting," the phenomenon of employees committing to not doing the extra work that goes completely unnoticed. And you may have even heard about "quiet firing," where employers treat employees poorly so that they'll leave.But "quiet hiring" is something else entirely."Quiet hiring" is the recruiting strategy used by Google that's little-known but extremely effective — just not for those employees who aren't willing to go the extra mile.



Related: 'Dream Jobs Are DEAD': Quiet Quitting is the TikTok Trend Encouraging Employees to Take It Easy at WorkEssentially, "quiet hiring" means honing in on employees who are already going above and beyond, perhaps even taking on additional responsibilities that prove they have what it takes to excel in a given role, according to Inc.


Studies show that high-achievers can produce 400% more than the average employee, so from a business perspective, prioritizing them from the start just makes sense.Google's "quiet hiring" isn't just limited to internal employees, either. Per Inc., Google's hiring committee, which consists of five or six Google employees, judges each candidate on five "key aspects," two of which are internal references and employee testimonials. The idea is to significantly reduce the risk of a bad hire.So what about all of the "quiet quitters?" It'll be much harder for them to land a job at Google or a company with similar values. Employees who only do what's asked of them all the time might seem content where they are, getting overlooked for that promotion or raise in the process.Related: 3 Ways to Avoid the Quiet Quitting of Your Gen Z Employees


But, in some sense, "quiet hiring" gives the power back to employees who want to move forward in their careers and earn more money (that is, if they actually work for a company that rewards their stellar performance).
 






Wavy Line










Wavy Line


















Amanda Breen
Entrepreneur Staff
Senior Features Writer



      Amanda Breen is a senior features writer at Entrepreneur.com. She is a graduate of Barnard College and received an MFA in writing at Columbia University, where she was a news fellow for the School of the Arts.
    




                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.













              Editor's Pick                  

Red Arrow











Lock



Want to Start a Simple Business That Helps the Planet? After 'One Night's Worth of Research,' He Started an Eco-Friendly Gig and Now Makes $200,000 a Year





I've Negotiated High-Pressure, Multi-Million-Dollar Deals for Artists Like Bruno Mars and Enrique Iglesias — Here's the Strategy That Always Helps Me Win




Lock



This Toxic Money Habit Is Becoming More Common — If You've Picked It Up, Your Finances Are at Serious Risk, Expert Warns
                




                  'This Year Almost Broke Me': Tom Schwartz Reveals 'Scandoval' Almost Shut Down His Restaurant After Losing 80% of His Business
                




                  'Not What Anybody Signed Up For': A Legal Expert Weighs in on the Labor Rule That Could Destroy Franchising




Lock



                  Anyone Can Try the Simple Strategy That One Billionaire Investor Used to Make His First Million Dollars Tax-Free












Most Popular


Red Arrow









        See all        

Chevron Right






















          Side Hustle
                  


                  These Coworkers-Turned-Friends Started a Side Hustle on Amazon — Now It's a 'Full Hustle' Earning Over $20 Million a Year: 'Jump in With Both Feet'
                  


          Achal Patel and Russell Gong met at a large consulting firm and "bonded over a shared vision to create a mission-led company." 
        











        By        Amanda Breen
      




















          Business News
                  


                  Samsung's New Ad Pokes Fun at Apple's Controversial 'Crush' Ad
                  


          Creative universes overlap in a new ad from Samsung. 
        











        By        Sherin Shibu
      




















          Starting a Business
                  


                  This Couple Turned Their Startup Into a $150 Million Food Delivery Company. Here's What They Did Early On to Make It Happen.
                  


          Selling only online to your customers has many perks. But the founders of Little Spoon want you to know four things if you want to see accelerated growth.
        











        By        Entrepreneur Staff
      




















          Branding
                  


                  All Startups Need a Well-Defined Brand Positioning Statement. Here's a 3-Step Framework to Help You Craft One.
                  


          Startup founders often lack time but they should invest resources in identifying a winning brand position that will then drive all their strategic decisions. 
        











        By        Praveen Krishnamurthy
      




















          Business News
                  


                  An Ohio Pub Is Going Viral for Its 'No Exceptions' Door Policy — Here's Why
                  


          Only people of a certain age can grab a drink on a Friday or Saturday night at Donerick's Pub in Ohio.
        











        By        Emily Rella
      




















          Business News
                  


                  Dell Is Labeling Hybrid Employees With 'Red Flags' Based on How Often They're in the Office
                  


          Dell will consider the frequency of employee badge swipes when it determines how hybrid employees are reviewed, rewarded, and compensated. 
        











        By        Sherin Shibu
      
















Success

 


							Successfully copied link
						











          Terms of Use
        

          Privacy Policy
        

          Cookies Policy
        

          Accessibility Statement
        

          Site Map
        

          Contact Support
        

          Advertise
        




Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.










Facebook

 


X

 


LinkedIn

 


YouTube





 


Instagram

















 


TikTok

 


Snapchat

 


RSS


 



            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          

































