



Air Fryers Are Cheaper (and Cleaner) to Run Than Wall Ovens. Here's How Much You Could Save - CNET


                                                                                                                                                                          X    Your GuideTo a Better Future          
                  Trending
                   
                  AI
                   
                  Tech
                   
                    VPN
                     
                    Streaming Services
                     
                    Mobile
                     
                    Home Entertainment
                     
                    Computing
                     
                    Services & Software
                     
                    Gaming
                      
                  All Tech
                   
                  Money
                   
                    Banking
                     
                    Credit Cards
                     
                    Mortgages
                     
                    Home Equity
                     
                    Taxes
                      
                  All Money
                   
                  Home
                   
                    Energy
                     
                    Home Security
                     
                    Smart Home
                     
                    Kitchen & Household
                     
                    Yard & Outdoors
                      
                  All Home
                   
                  Wellness
                   
                    Sleep
                     
                    Nutrition
                     
                    Fitness
                     
                    Personal Care
                      
                  All Wellness
                   
                  Home Internet
                   
                    Broadband
                     
                    By Location
                     
                    Internet Routers
                      
                  All Home Internet
                   
                  Deals
                   
                    Tech
                     
                    Home
                     
                    Wellness
                     
                    Coupons
                     
                    Gift Guides
                      
                  All Deals
                   
                  Cover Stories
                   
                  More
                   
                    Video
                     
                    Price Finder
                     
                    Editors' Choice
                      
                  All More
                      
        Back
                Why You Can Trust CNET   Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement    Home Kitchen & Household    
      Air Fryers Are Cheaper (and Cleaner) to Run Than Wall Ovens. Here's How Much You Could Save
      
    Air fryers can do most of the work of a wall oven in less time and with less energy. Here's how much you'll save by firing up the air fryer instead of the big oven tonight.
          David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips. 

Before, during and after earning his BA from Northeastern, he toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom. 

Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or the best way to cook bacon. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits   See full bio   David Watsky   
  May 1, 2024  6:03 a.m. PT 8 min read           An air fryer can trim money from your energy bill if you use it in place of the big oven. It'll also turn out some rather tasty eats.  Getty Images  I've got a long list of reasons to love an air fryer. Speed and convenience and results are at the top. Air fryers also pose no risk of contaminating your home's air, unlike natural gas ovens. Better still, you don't have to spend more than $100 to get a good one. Summer heatwaves are on the horizon and that should have you planning for how you'll keep the temperature down in the kitchen. Air fryers cook fast and are easy to clean and these ferocious countertop cookers are far cheaper and energy-efficient than large wall ovens. Used instead of the big oven, an air fryer can save you hundreds in utilities in a single year -- even more if you factor in having to use the AC less since an air fryer won't turn your kitchen into a sauna or steam bath.The Best Air Fryers for 2024 See at CNET         So how much less energy does an air fryer use? After some deep oven energy calculations, I found that air fryers use about 50% less total energy, and that's before factoring in the shorter total time needed for most food when cooked in an air fryer versus a big oven. Here's how we got that figure and a breakdown of how much you can save using your air fryer instead of the oven.  How much energy does an air fryer use?The answer won't be the same for everyone since energy costs vary by state in the US. Oven efficiency also varies and newer models tend to use less gas or electricity. For this exercise, we'll use some averages and estimates to assess how much you can potentially save if you fire up the air fryer instead of the oven. Oh, and saving money on energy is just one of many reasons we think air fryers are a worthwhile investment. More on that in a bit.   Cost of oven versus air fryer  Gas ovenElectric ovenAir fryer Cost per hour of cooking 40 cents52 cents25 cents    So how did we get these numbers? The easiest way to figure out how much an air fryer might save you versus a big oven was to calculate the wattage pulled per hour versus how much an electric stove would use. The same goes for a gas oven, although for that you need to figure out the amount of natural gas used for a stove as well as the cost of natural gas in your state.   Don't worry. We did the hard part.    How much energy do wall ovens use?      Ovens have become more energy efficient but they still can't hold a candle to air fryers. SamsungDepending on what type of oven you have, gas or electric, operating costs will vary since natural gas prices and electricity costs vary rather dramatically by state and service provider. While both use a similar amount of energy and have somewhat similar upfront costs, if you own an older oven there's a good chance it's less energy-efficient than a newer model.    How much energy does a gas oven use?        Natural gas-powered ovens are thought to cause health complications among children. KitchenAidTo calculate the operating cost of your gas stove and oven, we take the energy rating of the oven in Btu and divide it by 100,000. Multiply the result by the cost per therm of natural gas in your state, which varies greatly, then multiply by the number of hours the oven is used. You should be able to find the energy rating of your oven online if you know the model name or number. It is likely somewhere on the unit itself. If you still have the owner's manual, you can find the energy rating there, measured in Btu.   To calculate the operating cost of an 18,000-Btu oven, you'll divide 18,000 by 100,000, giving you 0.18. We'll also need to find the average price per therm of natural gas in your state. This chart has the most recent prices via the US Energy Information Administration. Note that this chart is listed in dollars per thousand cubic feet, so you'll need to divide by 10. For instance, if the chart price is $23, you'll use $2.30 to calculate the cost.   In New York where I live, the price is currently $2.20 per therm (about average for the US). Next, we'll multiply that price for a therm by the number you calculated in the last step (0.18 in this example) to get the operating cost per hour of using your gas oven.   For me, it would cost about 40 cents per hour to run an 18,000-Btu oven. If I were to run an oven for 1 hour per day, it would cost $146 per year. In some states (including Georgia, Florida and Ohio), natural gas is about 30% higher than the national average. In Hawaii, it's more than double.    How much energy does an electric oven use?        In New York, an electric oven costs about 50 cents an hour to run. Chris Monroe/CNETTo determine electric stove consumption you'll calculate the wattage pulled per hour of cooking. Most electric ovens draw around 3,000 watts, depending on the temperature. Once you find the wattage of your oven via the appliance tag, owner's manual or an online product listing, multiply that by the number of hours you use the oven each day (we'll use 1 hour for this calculation), then divide by 1,000 watts to find the kilowatt-hours (kWh) of electricity used.   Next, find the average price per kWh of electricity in your state. For that, you can consult this chart that has the 2020 prices listed in cents per kWh. The prices for 2021 won't be released until December 2022, but if you do some web searching, you should be able to find the latest figures. Multiply that amount by the number you just calculated (3 kWh in this example) to determine your operating cost per day.   Working with New York's current electricity rate of 17 cents per kWh, a 3,000-watt oven would cost about 51 cents per hour when run at high heat. If I used my oven for roughly 1 hour per day for one year that would equal roughly $182 per year. This cost doesn't include energy used by the range and burners.         A standard 1,500-watt air fryer has both gas and electric ovens beat handily when it comes to energy efficiency. Cosori  How much energy does an air fryer use? Air fryers are electric appliances, so we can use the same methodology as above to find the operating cost. The wattage for air fryers varies and larger models will use more energy, but a standard 4-quart fryer such as this Ninja (our top-rated model) uses about 1,500 watts.   Considering that's exactly half the wattage pull of the average full-size oven from our stove calculation, we can project that the air fryer will use roughly half as much electricity to operate.   Using New York's electricity prices, we safely say a standard 4-quart air fryer will cost about 25 cents per hour to run. That's 50% more energy-efficient than the average full-size electric oven and about 35% more efficient than the average gas oven (calculated with New York state's average energy costs).        Ninja's 4-quart air fryer oven is one of the best we've tested. CNET/Ninja How much money can you save using an air fryer?  Cost of 300 hours of cooking with a gas oven on high heat: $153Cost of 300 hours of cooking with an electric oven on high heat: $120Cost of 150 hours of cooking with an air fryer: $39These numbers are a rough estimate, of course. The numbers will vary based on your state's energy cost, how much cooking you do in a year, what temperature you're cooking at and the type and size of oven you're using.   But that's only half of the equation. Air fryers are even more energy- and cost-efficient than these raw numbers illustrate.   Here's why…        Air fryers do the work of wall ovens in less time and using less energy. David Watsky/CNET Air fryers cook faster than big ovens Because of the smaller cooking chamber and superconvection (intense fan blowing heat into food), air fryers generally cook foods much faster than your traditional gas or electric stove. Often in about half the time it takes to make a similar recipe in a full oven.  Below are some examples of cooking times for air fryers versus stoves. The cooking website Taste of Home compiled a list of average air fryer cooking times for popular foods. We compared those with standard cooking times pulled from Food Network recipes for oven-baked or oven-roasted versions of those foods.  Cooking times: Air fryer versus oven  FoodTemperatureAir fryer cooking time (mins)Oven cooking time with preheat (mins) Chicken thighs 400 F20-2540Chicken wings 375 F10-1240Chicken breast 375 F2330Salmon 400 F5-712-15Brussels sprouts 350 F15-18 40Bacon 400 F5-1020Cauliflower 400 F10-1220French fries (from scratch) 400 F10-2040-45French fries (frozen) 400 F6-818-20      Air fryers don't need to preheat either Don't forget most air fryers also don't require any preheating time, making them even more efficient. The average full-size oven takes at least 10 minutes to preheat but usually more like 12 to 15 minutes. Preheating requires as much (or more) energy as actual cooking. In the chart above, I added a modest 10 minutes to each of the oven cooking times to account for preheating.  If you consider that an air fryer does the work of an oven in half the time (even faster when you include preheat time), 300 hours of cooking in a standard oven in a year would likely take fewer than 150 hours when done in an air fryer.         Chicken wings made in an air fryer are extremely tasty and cook in half the time. Brian Bennett/CNET  Best Air Fryer for 2023 See at Cnet     Before we get carried away…  An air fryer is not a pound-for-pound replacement for an oven. There are plenty of foods that you probably won't want to cook in an air fryer. Others just plain won't fit in a standard air fryer. Certain models are spacious enough to cook a whole chicken, but for larger roasts, a Thanksgiving turkey or that Sunday lasagna -- not to mention most baking projects -- your air fryer may not be the best option.   That said, for someone who doesn't bake much or cook whole turkeys and racks of lamb on the regular, an air fryer can shoulder a whole lot of the cooking that your more expensive, less energy-efficient oven has been handling.         Don't throw your big oven away just yet. You'll still want it to cook that Sunday lasagna and a turkey on Thanksgiving. mphillips007/E+/Getty Images The best reason to use an air fryer isn't the savings An air fryer won't cook everything better than your oven, but there are some air fryer foods that a big oven can't touch. Because air fryers cook so fast and at high temps, foods like chicken wings, french fries and most frozen apps will get crispy on the outside without drying out on the inside the way they might when stuck in the large oven for 30 or 40 minutes.   As mentioned, air fryers don't require any preheating time either. Most of the models I've used are also extremely simple to operate, safe even for children to use and easy to clean.        The Instant Pot air fryer lid turned out some excellent fried chicken in about 20 minutes. Can your big oven do that? David Watsky/CNET  Bonus: Air fryers are cheap  You can pay in the hundreds for an air fryer but many of the best ones we tested are less than that. You can pick up our favorite air fryer, the Ninja 4-quart, for $100, or cheaper if you find it on sale. And our favorite budget air fryer, the Gourmia 4-quart, can be found for just $60.  And if you're curious, Instant Pots and multicookers also use significantly less energy than an oven. If you have an Instant Pot but no air fryer, you can snag the Mealthy air-frying lid for $85 or Instant Pot's lid attachment for Instant Pot's lid for $50.     
    Kitchen and Household Guides
   
      Appliances
     
  
          Best Toaster Oven
        
          Best Cordless Vacuum
        
          Best Coffee Maker
        
          Best Dishwasher
        
          Best Robot Vacuum
        
          Best Air Fryer
        
          Best Air Purifier
        
          Best Juicer
        
          Best Electric Kettle
        
          Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
        
          Best Rice Cooker
        
          Best Water Filter Pitcher
        
          Best Blender
        
          Best Instant Pot
        
          Best Espresso Machine
                        Your guideto a better future DealsReviewsBest ProductsGift GuideCouponsVideosSoftware Downloads About CNET Press Room Newsletters Sitemap Careers Cookie Settings Help Center Licensing Privacy Policy  Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook x flipboard  US France Germany Japan Korea 
  © 2024 CNET, a Red Ventures company.
  All rights reserved.
   


