


How do I use the Red Button? | Contact the BBC





















































          Homepage     Accessibility links   Skip to content   Accessibility Help       BBC Account        Notifications         Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live               More menu    Search BBC        Search BBC              Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food        Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live         Close menu    









Contact the BBC










Menu
















Contact Home


Help and FAQs


Comments


Complaints


About the BBC










search
































How do I use the Red Button?




Simply press the red button on your remote control at any time. Sometimes you will be prompted to press the red button by an announcement in a programme or a red button logo appearing in the top right-hand corner of your TV screen.
The BBC's Red Button service allows you to access additional television programming, live coverage from major sporting and cultural events, sports scores, lottery and weather information as well as the latest breaking national and global news stories.
It's available with any digital service, though the type and number of features vary according to whether you have digital terrestrial, satellite, cable or broadband. Most of the interactive features currently available are provided by the BBC, Sky and the cable companies. A few other broadcasters, including ITV, offer a limited range.
The Red Button graphic can be removed from your screen by one simple action, dependent on the platform you are watching on:

Sky - Press the BACK UP button
Virgin Media - Press the BLUE button
Freeview - Press the BACK or GREEN buttons
Freesat - Press the BACK or GREEN buttons

For more help with the BBC Red Button, you can visit the BBC Reception help site.












Related FAQs



Who is my digital television supplier?


Where can I get help with the reception on my TV or radio?


Will the BBC text service on red button continue to be available?


































Can't find what you're looking for?





Get more help







     Explore the BBC      Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live              Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us   Copyright © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.   Read about our approach to external linking.                  










