


Getting started on a TV | iPlayer help





















































          Homepage     Accessibility links   Skip to content   Accessibility Help       BBC Account        Notifications         Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live               More menu    Search BBC        Search BBC              Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food        Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live         Close menu    






























BreadcrumbiPlayer help homeGetting started with BBC iPlayerGetting started on a TV




search



























Getting started on a TV




BBC iPlayer is available on connected TVs, games consoles, set-top boxes, streamers and platforms including Freesat, Sky, Virgin Media, and YouView.
You can access BBC iPlayer in one of the following ways, depending on the device:

Launch the app
Use your device's on-screen menu and episode guide
Press the red button on your remote from a BBC channel

To check if your device is supported, have a look here: How can I check if BBC iPlayer is available on a particular TV?
How do I use BBC iPlayer on my device?

Freesat

	If you have a compatible Freesat with Freetime box, BBC iPlayer can be accessed by launching into the On Demand section from the Home menu. Your Freesat device will need to be connected to the internet to access BBC iPlayer.
	 
Freeview Play 

	If you're using Freeview Play to watch BBC iPlayer then you need to make sure your TV is connected to an aerial before you launch the BBC iPlayer app. For more information on Freeview Play visit their website: Freeview Play.
	 
Sky

Sky+ box: Access BBC iPlayer by selecting ‘Catch Up’ in Sky’s On Demand section and then choose BBC iPlayer
		 
Sky Q: As well as accessing BBC content via Catch Up and On Demand, you can also access the BBC iPlayer app which is available in the Apps section, or via the red button (when on a BBC channel). Using the 'Watch from the start' option when switching to a BBC channel will also launch iPlayer.
		 
​​​​​​​Sky Glass: There are multiple ways to access BBC iPlayer programmes, including via the red button (on a BBC channel) and by selecting BBC iPlayer in the Apps section
 




Virgin Media
	Virgin Media TiVo users can find BBC iPlayer either via the connected red button or the Apps and Games directory. Within Virgin TiVo, you can also access BBC iPlayer by going left in the EPG and selecting content that is marked available for catch-up. 
	 
YouView

	BBC iPlayer is available on YouView, either through a YouView box or compatible YouView-enabled TV. You can use BBC iPlayer on YouView by either selecting BBC iPlayer from the Players section, watching a BBC programme from the last seven days via the YouView electronic programme guide, or watching a BBC programme from the last seven days via the YouView On Demand area. In order to access BBC iPlayer, YouView devices need to be connected to the internet.
	 
Smart TVs and internet connected devices

	There are several different versions of BBC iPlayer which manufacturers use in their devices. Between these versions, due to technical limitations, there can be some variations in features (subtitles, HD etc.). Each device will need to be connected to the internet to use BBC iPlayer.

Do I have to sign in?
Yes, you do. Once you've signed in, you can access your Added programmes and pick up watching where you left off. Check the How do I sign in to BBC iPlayer on my TV? page for a step-by-step guide on signing in.
 



















Related FAQs



How do I sign in to BBC iPlayer on my TV?


Troubleshooting problems on connected TVs and games consoles


How can I check if BBC iPlayer is available on a particular TV?





















Need more help?





Contact us












Browse our help categories







Getting Started








About BBC iPlayer and our policies






Accessibility






Getting started with BBC iPlayer






Need more help?






Parental controls






Signing in






Supported devices












Watching iPlayer








Downloading






Features






Programme availability






Recent changes to iPlayer






Watching outside the UK












Resolving Issues








Mobile and tablet issues






Playback issues






Smart TV and games console issues






Computer issues












Children's Experience








About the Children's Experience

















     Explore the BBC      Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live              Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us   Copyright © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.   Read about our approach to external linking.                  









