









Control methane to slow global warming — fast


















































































Skip to main content


Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.





Advertisement























View all journals




Search



Log in











Explore content




About the journal




Publish with us




Subscribe






Sign up for alerts




RSS feed










nature



editorials




article









                            Control methane to slow global warming — fast
                        


Download PDF











EDITORIAL
25 August 2021

Control methane to slow global warming — fast


                    Carbon dioxide reductions are key, but the IPCC’s latest report highlights the benefits of making cuts to other greenhouse gases, too.
                







Twitter





Facebook





Email








You have full access to this article via your institution.


Download PDF










Download PDF











Oil and gas operations — such as Inglewood Oil Field in Los Angeles, California — are a key source of methane.Credit: Citizens of the Planet/Education Images/Universal Images Group/Getty


There’s no substitute for eliminating fossil fuels and halting the release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere to avoid the painful and disruptive effects of global warming. The latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) leaves no doubt about this. But CO2 is not the only greenhouse gas. The climate panel also highlights the problem — and opportunity — posed by methane, which has contributed as much as 0.5 °C of warming since pre-industrial times, second only to CO2.Methane is the main component of natural gas, whose popularity as a relatively clean source of fossil energy has soared by more than 50% over the past two decades. In the United States, cheap and plentiful natural gas supplies — obtained from controversial hydraulic fracking — have helped to displace coal. But there has also been a cost to the climate: fossil fuels have helped to boost atmospheric methane concentrations,which have more than doubled since pre-industrial times, from around 700 parts per billion by volume to nearly 1,900 p.p.b. in 2020.Methane is of concern because it has an outsized impact on the climate. The gas makes up a tiny fraction of our atmosphere — CO2 levels are more than 200 times higher. But in the first 20 years after release, methane is around 80 times more powerful than CO2 at trapping heat in Earth’s atmosphere. It also breaks down much more quickly than CO2, with an average lifetime of around a decade, compared with centuries for CO2. This means that curbing methane emissions could provide short-term relief while governments and businesses negotiate the more difficult transition from fossil fuels to clean energy.

IPCC climate report: Earth is warmer than it’s been in 125,000 years
In an effort to reduce methane emissions, scientists have been investigating two linked questions. First, what are the major sources of methane? Second, where are the worst offenders? Livestock is the largest source, responsible for 31% of the global total, according to Ilissa Ocko at the non-profit Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) in New York City and her colleagues1. Oil and gas operations rank a close second, releasing 26%. Other sources include landfills, coal mines, rice paddies and water-treatment plants.Reducing methane from livestock represents a particular challenge. People could eat less meat, but persuading people to change their diet is rarely straightforward. Moreover, meat consumption is rising in low- and middle-income countries — in line with rising incomes. It should be easier to curb emissions from other sectors. In many cases, doing so wouldn’t cost anything — and it could even be profitable.Global methane emissions could be cut by 57% by 2030 using existing technologies, Ocko and her colleagues report. And almost one-quarter of the global methane total could be eliminated at no net cost. The oil and gas industry could make the biggest difference here, having both the infrastructure and the incentive to minimize methane losses: more methane in their pipelines means more revenue. In other sectors, the operators of landfills, coal mines and wastewater-treatment plants could capture the gas and use it to generate electricity. And rice producers could minimize emissions with better irrigation and soil-management practices. If these measures were implemented worldwide, projected increases in global warming could be reduced by 0.25 °C by 2050, and 0.5 °C by 2100, the study finds. Those are significant numbers considering that the world has already warmed by 1.1 °C, and global leaders have committed to limiting the total to 1.5–2 °C.

The hard truths of climate change — by the numbers
The main problem is pinpointing precisely where methane emissions are coming from. More than a decade ago, researchers monitored methane from aircraft surveys using infrared sensors that can detect gases in sunlight reflected back from Earth2. Today, satellites are part of this monitoring effort. Research shows that a relatively small number of ‘super-emitters’ are responsible for a significant share of methane emissions, particularly in the oil and gas industry3.The ability to identify major methane sources is poised to advance in the next two years. In 2022, the EDF will launch a satellite designed to identify emissions across large swathes of land. Carbon Mapper, a non-profit partnership that includes NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory and the San Francisco-based company Planet, will follow up in 2023 with two prototype satellites designed to track methane and CO2 at the scale of individual facilities.In March, the United Nations Environment Programme and the European Commission launched the International Methane Emissions Observatory to help coordinate these efforts and help policymakers and companies take action. The observatory will also have access to estimated emissions inventories from governments and industry. Around 70 oil and gas producers, including giants such as Shell and BP, have committed to setting clear emissions-reductions targets and reporting emissions under an initiative led by the Climate & Clean Air Coalition, an international initiative involving governments, non-profit organizations, businesses and others. This work will also help to inform new methane-reduction commitments due to be made at the UN climate conference in Glasgow, UK, in November.The world will continue to warm as long as CO2 is being pumped into the atmosphere. But curbing emissions of methane and other powerful greenhouse gases might reduce the sting. That is why governments and businesses should seize the opportunity, buying humanity a bit more time to do what needs to be done.

Nature 596, 461 (2021)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-021-02287-y

ReferencesOcko, I. B. et al. Environ. Res. Lett. 16, 054042 (2021).Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Pétron, G. et al. J. Geophys. Res. 117, D04304 (2012).Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Cusworth, D. H. et al. Environ. Sci. Technol. Lett. 8, 567–573 (2021).Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Download references


Reprints and permissions

Related Articles





                        
                        IPCC climate report: Earth is warmer than it’s been in 125,000 years
                    






                        
                        Diagnosing Earth: the science behind the IPCC’s upcoming climate report
                    






                        
                        The hard truths of climate change — by the numbers
                    






                        
                        Where climate cash is flowing and why it’s not enough
                    



Subjects


Climate change


Climate sciences


Developing world


Policy



Latest on:


Climate change





Forestry social science is failing the needs of the people who need it most
Editorial 15 MAY 24




2023 summer warmth unparalleled over the past 2,000 years
Article 14 MAY 24




Finding millennia-old ‘monumental’ corals could unlock secrets of climate resilience
Correspondence 07 MAY 24






Climate sciences





Forestry social science is failing the needs of the people who need it most
Editorial 15 MAY 24





One-third of Southern Ocean productivity is supported by dust deposition
Article 15 MAY 24




2023 summer warmth unparalleled over the past 2,000 years
Article 14 MAY 24






Developing world





How ignorance and gender inequality thwart treatment of a widespread illness
Outlook 09 MAY 24





How to meet Africa’s grand challenges with African know-how
World View 01 MAY 24




More work is needed to take on the rural wastewater challenge
Correspondence 23 APR 24














Jobs
                





Postdoc in CRISPR Meta-Analytics and AI for Therapeutic Target Discovery and Priotisation (OT Grant)

APPLICATION CLOSING DATE: 14/06/2024 Human Technopole (HT) is a new interdisciplinary life science research institute created and supported by the...
Milan (IT)
Human Technopole








Research Associate - Metabolism

Houston, Texas (US)
Baylor College of Medicine (BCM)








Postdoc Fellowships

Train with world-renowned cancer researchers at NIH? Consider joining the Center for Cancer Research (CCR) at the National Cancer Institute
Bethesda, Maryland
NIH National Cancer Institute (NCI)





Faculty Recruitment, Westlake University School of Medicine

Faculty positions are open at four distinct ranks: Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, Full Professor, and Chair Professor.
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China
Westlake University








PhD/master's Candidate

PhD/master's Candidate    Graduate School of Frontier Science Initiative, Kanazawa University is seeking candidates for PhD and master's students i...
Japan (JP)
Kanazawa University














You have full access to this article via your institution.


Download PDF









Download PDF





Related Articles





                        
                        IPCC climate report: Earth is warmer than it’s been in 125,000 years
                    






                        
                        Diagnosing Earth: the science behind the IPCC’s upcoming climate report
                    






                        
                        The hard truths of climate change — by the numbers
                    






                        
                        Where climate cash is flowing and why it’s not enough
                    



Subjects


Climate change


Climate sciences


Developing world


Policy











Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.








Email address




Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.

Sign up












Close banner






Close






Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.









Email address



Sign up



I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.











Close banner






Close



Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
            







Explore content



                                    Research articles
                                



                                    News
                                



                                    Opinion
                                



                                    Research Analysis
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Books & Culture
                                



                                    Podcasts
                                



                                    Videos
                                



                                    Current issue
                                



                                    Browse issues
                                



                                    Collections
                                



                                    Subjects
                                




Follow us on Facebook
                            


Follow us on Twitter
                            



Subscribe



Sign up for alerts




RSS feed







About the journal



                                    Journal Staff
                                



                                    About the Editors
                                



                                    Journal Information
                                



                                    Our publishing models
                                



                                    Editorial Values Statement
                                



                                    Journal Metrics
                                



                                    Awards
                                



                                    Contact
                                



                                    Editorial policies
                                



                                    History of Nature
                                



                                    Send a news tip
                                






Publish with us



                                    For Authors
                                



                                    For Referees
                                



                                    Language editing services
                                


Submit manuscript







Search

Search articles by subject, keyword or author






Show results from

All journals



Search






                Advanced search
            

Quick links

Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies










                    Nature (Nature)
                

ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
    

ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
    






nature.com sitemap



About Nature Portfolio

About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us



Discover content

Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index



Publishing policies

Nature portfolio policies
Open access



Author & Researcher services

Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions



Libraries & institutions

Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library



Advertising & partnerships

Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits

Branded
                        content



Professional development

Nature Careers
Nature 
                        Conferences



Regional websites

Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Italy
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East






Privacy
                Policy
Use
                of cookies

Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
                

Legal
                notice
Accessibility
                statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights







© 2024 Springer Nature Limited








