







































Overfishing: The most serious threat to our oceans




























      Skip to main content
    






Triple your impact in the fight against climate change this Earth Day 
Donate today



















Home






Our work




Our impact




About us




Get involved




News and stories





GO





Donate






Magnifying Glass









Back







                                  Climate change solutions
                              

We deliver game-changing solutions that have a real impact for people around the globe. Our vision: A vital Earth. For everyone. 





                    Energy transition
                  



                      Cut methane emissions
                    



                      Get hydrogen right
                    



                      Make transportation cleaner
                    







                    People and nature
                  



                      Grow food sustainably
                    



                      Catch fish responsibly
                    



                      Improve water supplies
                    



                      Harness nature's power
                    



                      Reduce flood risk
                    







                    Healthy communities
                  



                      Make chemicals safer
                    



                      Reduce air pollution
                    






Close

Featured




                    Bill Nye the Science Guy highlights the fastest way to slow global warming
                  


  




















                    Global food companies join EDF for a groundbreaking step on dairy methane
                  


  
























Back







                                  Our impact
                              

For more than 50 years, we have been building innovative solutions to the biggest environmental challenges — from soil to space.





                    2023 impact report
                  







                    Vision 2030, our strategic plan
                  






Close

Featured




                    Our groundbreaking push to cut methane on 3 critical fronts
                  


  




















                    Building climate leaders with EDF Climate Corps
                  


  
























Back







                                  About us
                              

Guided by science and economics, and committed to climate justice, we work in the places, on the projects and with the people that can make the biggest difference.





                    Our approach
                  



                      Advance rigorous science
                    



                      Apply economic principles
                    



                      Forge partnerships
                    



                      Ensure climate justice
                    



                      Advocate for smart policies
                    



                      Champion diversity
                    







                    Our people
                  



                      Our staff
                    



                      Leadership team
                    



                      Board of trustees
                    







                    Where we work
                  



                      China
                    



                      Europe
                    



                      India
                    



                      United States
                    






Close

Featured




                    Reimagining business for a sustainable future
                  


  




















                    Our bold plan to stabilize the climate for a vital Earth
                  


  
























Back







                                  Get involved
                              

If we act now — together — there’s still time to build a future where people, the economy and the Earth can all thrive. Every one of us has a role to play. Choose yours.





                    Donate
                  



                      Donate monthly
                    



                      Renew your gift
                    



                      Make a tribute gift
                    



                      Plan a gift in your will
                    



                      Other ways to give
                    







                    Take action
                  



                      Sign a petition
                    



                      Help stop misinformation
                    







                    Get a green job
                  



                      Work at EDF
                    



                      EDF Climate Corps
                    



                      Degrees green jobs podcast
                    






Close

Featured




                    $2-for-$1 match today.Donate now.
                  


  




















                    How to save money on an EV in the U.S. in 2024
                  


  
























Back







                                  News and stories
                              

Stay informed and get inspired with our in-depth reporting about the people and ideas making a difference, insight from our experts and the latest progress in the climate flight.





                    Headlines
                  



                      Expert commentary
                    



                      Stories and articles
                    



                      Video explainers
                    







                    Research and resources
                  



                      Published research
                    



                      Press releases
                    



                      Blogs
                    







                    Stay informed
                  






Close

Featured




                    EDF Chief Scientist Steven Hamburg named AAAS Fellow for outstanding science research
                  


  




















                    Vital Signs, our digital magazine, will make you think and give you hope
                  


  






























Overfishing: The most serious threat to our oceans



      September 18, 2023
    







Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on LinkedIn
Copy Link








  











Of all the threats facing the oceans today, overfishing takes the greatest toll on sea life — and people.
What is overfishing?
Overfishing is catching too many fish at once, so the breeding population becomes too depleted to recover. Overfishing often goes hand in hand with wasteful types of commercial fishing that haul in massive amounts of unwanted fish or other animals, which are then discarded.
As a result of prolonged and widespread overfishing, nearly a third of the world’s assessed fisheries are now in deep trouble — and that’s likely an underestimate, since many fisheries remain unstudied.
What are the effects of overfishing?
Overfishing endangers ocean ecosystems and the billions of people who rely on seafood as a key source of protein. Without sustainable management, our fisheries face collapse — and we face a food crisis.
What are the causes of overfishing?
Poor fishing management is the primary cause. Around the world, many fisheries are governed by rules that make the problem worse, or have no rules at all.
Learn more: How to make fishing more sustainable
What’s the solution to overfishing?
With smarter management systems, known as fishing rights, we can reverse the incentives that lead to overfishing. Under fishing rights, fishermen’s interests are tied to the long-term health of a fishery. Their income improves along with the fish population.
Does it work?
Yes. In Belize, Denmark, Namibia, the United States and elsewhere, fishing rights have helped transform struggling fisheries. In the Gulf of Mexico, red snapper populations are three times what they were in 2007 when we helped reform that fishery. We are working to ensure that sustainable fishing is firmly established in the U.S. and other countries.





The big picture
Key PriorityPeople and natureIssueSustainable fishing




Did you know?
3 billion people worldwide depend on seafood as a protein source.








Fight for people and the planet
Make a monthly donation this spring and you can double your impact.

Make a one-time donation


Fight for people and the planet
Make a monthly donation this spring and you can double your impact.

Make a one-time donation


Another easy way to help


 Join a powerful force of over 3 million allies.
 Get tips on how you can protect the environment.
 Get alerts when there are crucial petitions to sign.




















About EDF



Commitment to diversity


Careers


Offices







News and resources



News and updates


Reports and publications


For the media







Members



Become a member


Take action


Contact










Twitter




LinkedIn




Instagram




Facebook




TikTok




Copyright © 2024 Environmental Defense Fund. All Rights Reserved. Privacy statement. Terms of Use.
Environmental Defense Fund is a nonprofit, tax-exempt charitable organization under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Donations are tax-deductible as allowed by law. Tax identification number 11-6107128.
EDF operates with the highest standards of ethics and open, honest communication. Read our whistleblower policy or report a concern through our confidential, third-party compliance site.





 






















