


Join us in the audience for one of our shows | Shows and tours


















































          Homepage     Accessibility links   Skip to content   Accessibility Help       BBC Account        Notifications         Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live               More menu    Search BBC        Search BBC              Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food        Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live         Close menu    

































Menu




Home


Shows


Tours


Take Part


FAQs


Join our mailing list

















Join us in the audience for one of our shows



As the largest provider of free television and radio tickets in the UK, we work on over a thousand shows each year. And we’d love you to be in our audience for one of them. New shows are added regularly so join our mailing list and follow us on Twitter and Instagram to hear when tickets for your favourite show become available. 





Keep in touch

Receive news by email and follow us on social media.





Join our mailing list
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Instagram










Select a show to apply for tickets








All





England





Northern Ireland





Scotland





Wales





      More
    





















Delyana Lazarova conducts music by Tabakova, Mendelssohn and Dvořák


Bulgarian conductor Delyana Lazarova returns to the BBC Symphony Orchestra.



13 June 2024


        London
      

Available for booking












The Infinite Monkey Cage


The Infinite Monkey Cage, BBC Radio 4's highly popular and entertaining science/comedy show returns for a new series. 



03 June 2024

          - 26 June 2024


        London
      

Random draw open






 




BBC at the Edinburgh Festivals


BBC at the Edinburgh Festivals is coming back for 2024!



05 August 2024

          - 18 August 2024


        Edinburgh
      

Coming soon












Brain of Britain 


Competitors from around the UK bid to become the 71st BBC Brain of Britain. 



09 July 2024

          - 10 July 2024


        London
      

Available for booking












An afternoon of Glazunov with the BBC Philharmonic Orchestra


Martyn Brabbins conducts the BBC Philharmonic Orchestra as they perform two of Russian composer Alexander Glazunov’s best-loved pieces.



30 May 2024


        Salford
      

Random draw open












The Today Podcast: Live!


Join Amol Rajan and Nick Robinson for the first ever The Today Podcast: Live! 



12 June 2024


        London
      

Random draw open












BBC Proms Nottingham: Young Composer


Be first to hear pieces composed by the most recent winners of the BBC Young Composer competition.



07 September 2024


        Nottingham
      

Available for booking












The Kitchen Cabinet 


If there's anything you've ever wanted to know about food or cooking but didn't know whom to ask, read on…



29 May 2024

          - 15 July 2024


        Various locations
      

New dates released












Breaking the Euros


Join Des Clarke for a very special look at Euro 2024.



02 June 2024


        Glasgow
      

Fully booked












Dead Ringers


The hit BBC Radio 4 show returns!



25 April 2024

          - 30 May 2024


        London
      

Random draw closed












Me and the Farmer: Jim Smith


Join comedian Jim Smith for some hilarious real life farming stories.



20 May 2024


        Perth
      

Fully booked












Friday Night is Music Night


Spring into summer with an evening of music inspired by the brightest time of year. 



31 May 2024


        London
      

Random draw closed












Just a Minute 


Radio 4's longest running panel game returns for its 93rd series.



20 May 2024


        London
      

Fully booked












Friday Night is Music Night: On Stage and Screen


Step into the spotlight and experience the magic of the movies up close! 



22 May 2024


        Cardiff
      

Random draw closed




















Don't miss out

Receive news by email and follow us on social media





Join our mailing list
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Instagram







Do you need help?
        
See all FAQs



ID information
Attending a show
Attending a tour
Accessibility information










     Explore the BBC      Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live              Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us   Copyright © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.   Read about our approach to external linking.                  










